"THE DOORS": Screenplay by Randall Jahnson and Oliver Stone
SHOOTING DRAFT: INT. BLACK SCREEN
MORRISON'S VOICE: The movie will begin in five moments The mindless voice announced All those unseated will await the next show We filed slowly, languidly into the The auditorium was fast and silent As we seated and were darkened The voice continued "The program for this evening is not You've seen this entertainment Through and through You've seen your birth, your life and death You might recall all the rest Did you have a good world when you Enough to base a movie on?"
ENGINEER: Hey Jim, It's your birthday man, whaddaya say we try this another
VOICE: ( off ) Kill the lights a little more, will ya John?
ENGINEER: ( off ) Hey man, how come the Doors aren't in on this?
JIM: No music, No Doors. Let's roll. Is everybody in?. Is Everybody in?. Is everybody in? The ceremony is about to begin.
JIM: WAKE UP!!!! HAS THIS DREAM STOPPED!!!!
JIM VOICE: Let me tell you about the heartache and the loss of God Wandering wandering in hopeless night Indian's scattered on dawn's highway bleeding ghosts crowd the young childs fragile eggshell mind.
DOORS SONG: Riders on the storm ( 2 ) Into this house we're born Into this world we're thrown Like a dog without a bone An actor out on loan Riders on the storm
JIM VOICE: ( continues over imagery ) .me and my mother and father and grandmother and grandfather were driving through the desert at dawn and a truckload of Indian workers had either hit another car or just I don't know what happened. Indians were scattered all over the highway bleeding to death.
WOMEN, CHILDREN: Mom's scared face.
JIM VOICE: .but it was the first time I tasted fear. I musta been about four, like a child is just like a flower, his head is floating in the breeze.
MOM: It's just a dream, Jimmy, just a
SONG: ( continues ) There's a killer on the road His brain is squirming like a toad Take a long holiday Let your children play If you give this man a ride Sweet family will die There's a killer on the road The boy's eyes going back to the Indian MAN looking at him. then to the dying opened body bleeding out its guts on the asphalt. the dying man's face, twisted, moaning, amazing eyes at the point of death they settle on Jim
MOM: It's just a dream Jimmy, just a dream
JIM VOICE: .The reaction I get now looking back is the soul of the ghosts of those dead Indians maybe one or two of them were just running around freaking out and just leaped into my soul and they're still there.
SONG: Girl you gotta love your man ( 2 ) Take him by the hand Make him understand The car pulling away across the giant 1940's landscape
SONG: The world on you depends Our life will never end Girl you gotta love your man A LARGE LIZARD in the dust cocks its head, blinks, as the boots walk by to the car pulling over.
RADIO: .from the Texas School Book Depository. We repeat. President John F. Kennedy was shot a few minutes ago in Dallas!
RADIO: ( 2nd VOICE ) .taken to Parkland Memorial Hospital. There's no word on the President's condition. Mrs. Kennedy
NEXT?: On Jim staring out the window. "Who's next!"
SONG: Riders on the storm ( 4 ) On the DESERT.
YOU: DOORS SONG Hello I love you Won't you tell me your name? Hello I love you Let me jump in your game She's walking down the street Blind to every eye she meets Do you think you'll be the guy To make the queen of the angels sigh? JIM, in torn black chinos, no shirt, walking real slow past it all, carrying a notebook of his own and a paperback of Baudelaire, his eyes settling on. A YOUNG BEAUTY and her yellow labrador a fashionable thin, long, red-haired "20th century fox" in jeans moving through the crowd. He thinks about it a fraction of eternity and he's off. after her.
DOORS SONG: Hello I love you Won't you tell me your name? Hello I love you Let me jump in your game She's walking down the street Blind to every eye she meets Do you think you'll be the guy To make the queen of the angels sigh? JIM, in torn black chinos, no shirt, walking real slow past it all, carrying a notebook of his own and a paperback of Baudelaire, his eyes settling on. A YOUNG BEAUTY and her yellow labrador a fashionable thin, long, red-haired "20th century fox" in jeans moving through the crowd. He thinks about it a fraction of eternity and he's off. after her.
DOORS SONG: She holds her head so high Like a statue in the sky Her arms are wicked And her legs are long When she moves My brain screams out this song
DOORS SONG: Sidewalk crouches at her feet Like a dog that begs for something sweet Do you hope to make her see you, fool? Do you hope to pluck this dusky jewel?
DOORS SONG: She lives on Love Street Lingers long on Love Street She has a house and garden I would like to see what happens The YOUNG MAN gestures, and goes back inside the house. She's alone now on the balcony, sitting on a kitchen table. It's now or never. Jim scales the tree alongside the house with the agility of a gymnast.
DOORS SONG: She has robes and she has monkeys Lazy diamond studded flunkies She has wisdom and knows what to do She has me and she has you The girl's grinding up pot in an old shoebox with a spoon and kitchen strainer. She looks up and sees his crotch three feet from her face, balanced there effortlessly on the railing like a highwire act, opens her mouth in surprise. Jim drops softly to the balcony, a smile of disarming
JIM: Wow! Hi. You have a problem with doors?
GIRL: Wow! Hi. You have a problem with doors?
JIM: Waste of time. I followed you. from the beach.
JIM: I followed you. from the beach.
GIRL: ( impressed ) Wow! You followed me? Why?
JIM: .cause. you're the one.
GIRL: ( mesmerized, awkward ) Wow. neat. ( looks back ) .maybe you should meet my old man?
JIM: Later. You got a name?
JIM: Mine's Jim.
GIRL: The ice broken in that instant. Jim smiles.
JIM: Jim and Pam, Pam and Jim. Who the hell was that?
YOUNG MAN: Who the hell was that?
PAMELA: ( everything's cool ) That's Jim. My new friend.
JIM'S VOICE: Nietzche said "all great things must first wear monstrous and terrifying masks in order to inscribe themselves on the hearts of humanity". Listen children to the sound of the Nuremberg night.
JIM VOICE: ( on screen ) Have you ever seen God? a mandala. A symmetrical angel. Felt? Yes. Fucking the Sun. Heard? The music. Voices. Touched? An animal. Your hand Tasted? Rare meat, corn, water and wine
STUDENTS: ( ad lib ) SSSSssss. ego trip man, c'mon!
RAY: Hey man it's great, don't listen to em, it's non-linear man, it's poetry man, everything Godard stands for.
INSTRUCTOR: This is pretty shocking stuff Mr. Morrison. And I might say indulgent. Naziism and masturbation, when used for shock value, are not art. But to be constructive, let's start with your intention. What was it?
STUDENT 1: It was a bore!! That's what!
TRICK: Hey it was better'n a Warhol picture.
GIRL 1: No it wasn't. It was worse!
TRICK: A guy sleeping for seven hours.
STUDENT 2: .is less pretentious! There was no political consciousness. Naziism Hey hold on man! You guys are the It takes genitalism to absurdity man, just cause the squares here can't dig it cause the film school's still so square.
JACK: Hey hold on man! You guys are the It takes genitalism to absurdity man, just cause the squares here can't dig it cause the film school's still so square.
BONES: It takes genitalism to absurdity man, just cause the squares here can't dig it cause the film school's still so square.
VOICES: Oh c'mon man, give it a break. Boo! Beatniks go home! Take another
INSTRUCTOR: HOLD IT DOWN!!. Mr. Morrison what are your feelings?
JIM: I quit.
TRICK: ( to Jim ) Hey man whatdya expect, an Oscar?
BONES: You can't quit, you gotta voice. People can't dig cause they don't understand yet.
JACK: If you're an individual, if you're too good, they wanna cut your dick off. Look what happened to Orson You quit now, they'll yank your deferment in no time and they'll get you for Vietnam man. Three more months you graduate.
TRICK: You quit now, they'll yank your deferment in no time and they'll get you for Vietnam man. Three more months you graduate.
BONES: Be cool, you never learned fuckin patience Morrison, you want everything at once.
NICK: They didn't get it. So make your films and fuck what they think.
JIM: You know what I think?
BONES: Yeah whadday you think?
JIM: You really want to know what I think?
BONES: Yeah yeah, whatddaya think?
JIM: I think we gotta get really ripped!
RAY: I tell you bout my baby 'bout five foot four from head to toe She came to my room Just 'bout midnight She makes me feel so good She makes me feel alright You know what I'd like to do to you?
JIM: You know what I'd like to do to you?
GIRL: ( waiting, intrigued ) No what?
JIM: You really want to know what I'd like to do to you?
GIRL: The FOOTBALL TEAM TYPES edge over nearby, one of them picking out Jim with a glare.
JIM: ( whispering ) Wanna hear the scream of the
FOOTBALL PLAYER: Hey Morrison!
JIM: ( eluding the man ) Can we have a couple of beers. You're not even an asshole man you're a ( singing ) She came to my room She came on my floor She came on my bed She came on my face Ooooooh I want to wrap your legs around my head baby baby and her name was Gloria
JIM: ( singing ) She came to my room She came on my floor She came on my bed She came on my face Ooooooh I want to wrap your legs around my head baby baby and her name was Gloria
JIM: ( barely comprehensible )
LOST!: Jammed into the sedan are TRICK, BONES, ROBBIE, JOHN.
JIM: FREEDOM!!! DON'T YOU KNOW YOU'RE ALL
SLAVES!: As he winds down the window and starts crawling out of the car. Heavy traffic. Ray weaving to avoid another vehicle. Honking horn.
JOHN: HE'S GOING OUT! HE'S GOING OUT! HE'S GONNA JUMP! GET HIM BACK IN!
TRICK: HE'S GONNA JUMP! GET HIM BACK IN!
RAY: GET HIM BACK IN!
JIM: DEATH OLD FRIEND!!
JIM: ( SONG ) Shake dreams from your hair, my pretty child my sweet one Choose the day and choose the sign of your day The day's divinity the first thing you see Jim slides her upstairs' door open, crawls in next to her bed. She's asleep with her boyfriend. He touches her toe. She awakes, startled.
JIM: Come on, come out for a walk, it's a pretty night.
PAM: You're crazy!
JIM: ( SONG ) A vast radiant beach And a cool jewelled moon Couples naked, race down by its quiet side And we laugh like soft mad children There's a crash. They turn bristling. A COYOTE lurks under the sickly light of a streetlamp, pulling its head from an overstuffed garbage can, looking back at EXT. VENICE BOARDWALK - NIGHT Fires on the boardwalk. Hippies, Bums, Older People. JIM and PAM move through talking, skipping, touching like children.
JIM: ( SONG ) .smug in the wooly cotton brains of infancy The music and voices are all around us Choose, they croon, the ancient ones The time has come again
JIM: Can I stay with you tonight? We could talk 'till dawn. I just don't want to be alone.
PAM: ( hesitant ) Okay. just talk though. No funny Okay. I promise.
JIM: Okay. I promise.
PAM: I've been real upset. I lost my car on the freeway yesterday. I left it somewhere and I can't remember where and when I went back it was gone. My I bet you never expected life could be this hard. And you're still so young.
JIM: I bet you never expected life could be this hard. And you're still so young.
JIM: I wonder where we'll be ten years from now?
PAM: I really don't want to know
JIM: Come on.
JIM: ( SONG ) Choose now, they croon Beneath the moon Beside an ancient lake Enter again the sweet forest Enter the hot dream Come with us Everything is broken up and dances
PAM: ( reading, looking ) These are like beautiful! I never read much poetry in school. I hated it. What's a "shaman"? ( mispronounces )
JIM: He's the medicine man who starts in a peyote trance. And he gets everyone in the tribe going and they share in his vision and it heals them. It's the same in all cultures Greeks, Jesus. Some Indians say the first shaman invented sex. He's the one who makes you crazy.
PAM: Are you a "shaman"?
JIM: ( pause ) no. I just write about it. What turns you on?
PAM: I don't know. Experience. Freedom. Love. Now. Peyote's like love. When it's given it's blessed. When it's sold it's damned. I like peyote. I like acid, it's easier to get. I like the spiritual voyage. The first time I did acid I saw God. I did. I had a friend who was Christ. And he was Judas too. I suddenly knew the secret of everything that we're all one, the universe is one. And that everything is beautiful.
JIM: Is it? I don't know. I think you're alive by confronting death by experiencing pain.
PAM: I think you're alive by recognizing beauty seeing truth because when you discover truth you discover what love is. we're all saying the same thing. It's "love me and I'll love It's only thru death that you know life. Jesus, medicine men heal people by sacrificing their own life.
JIM: ( looks at her, ironic ) It's only thru death that you know life. Jesus, medicine men heal people by sacrificing their own life.
PAM: Do you love Death?
JIM: I think life hurts a lot more than death. When you die the pain is over.
PAM: Why do I look at you. and see my No, that's ridiculous.
JIM: I bet your dad's a school teacher.
PAM: How did you know!
JIM: I don't know.
PAM: What was your father?
JIM: I bet you moved around a lot.
PAM: I bet you moved around a lot.
JIM: Yeah, about 8 times.
PAM: How many sisters and brothers?
JIM: One. she's the pretty one. I love your neck.
PAM: One. she's the pretty one. I love your neck.
JIM: ".but one, the most beautiful one of all dances in a ring of fire and throws off the challenge with a shrug"
PAM: That's beautiful. Who did you write it for?
JIM: I wrote it for you.
PAM: .take your time, Jim. there's no hurry, I'm all you have to do
DOORS SONG: Well the clock says it's time to close now I guess I'd better go now. As we depart the rooftop. Your fingers weak with minarets Speaking secret alphabets I light another cigarette Learn to forget, learn to forget, learn to forget
RAY: Om om. No bliss! No bliss!
JIM: Hey Ray, try acid man, it's
RAY: ( surprised ) Morrison. Aw shit. Last trip I thought I was going through hell's digestive system. Something painted by Hieronymus Bosch.
JIM: I never had a bummer on acid.
RAY: I like naturally high man.
JIM: Whatever works. Making movies at MGM Well I saw the head of production and I said Godard doesn't use scripts, he improvises with his camera and he said, "great who's Godard?"
RAY: Well I saw the head of production and I said Godard doesn't use scripts, he improvises with his camera and he said, "great who's Godard?"
JIM: ( laughs ) We gotta take the planet back, reinvent the Gods, make new myths.
RAY: Right on. I thought you went to New Never got there. Went out to the desert and uh. got lost y'know. Days. I been living on Trick's rooftop. Got stuck on this chick.
JIM: Never got there. Went out to the desert and uh. got lost y'know. Days. I been living on Trick's rooftop. Got stuck on this chick.
RAY: Whatcha been doing?
JIM: Writing. Poems. Songs.
RAY: Songs? Lemme hear one.
JIM: I can't sing.
RAY: So neither can Dylan. "Johnny's in the basement mixing up the medicine, I'm on the pavement thinking about the government". But he's got the words man. That's what they want.
JIM: ( suddenly sings ) Let's swim to the moon un hunh Let's climb thru the tide Penetrate the evening That the city sleeps to hide
JIM: Let's swim out tonight love It's our turn to try Parked beside the ocean On our moonlight drive
RAY: Wow!. Y'know man those are hot lyrics really hot!
JIM: ( pleased ) .could you write the music for that down, if we went over to your place, could you write that on your Are you kidding! I could fly. You wrote that? You got others?
RAY: Are you kidding! I could fly. You wrote that? You got others?
JIM: A bunch. It's like I'm taking notes at a rock concert going on inside my head. I actually hear the music the spirit of the wine y'know, Man. You got a voice like Chet Baker haunted! What the hell happened to you in the desert? Let's get a rock and roll band together man and make a million bucks.
RAY: ( slaps him on the knee ) Man. You got a voice like Chet Baker haunted! What the hell happened to you in the desert? Let's get a rock and roll band together man and make a million bucks.
JIM: .be great wouldn't it?
RAY: ( walking JIM ) It's the perfect time man! Two of the guys outta my band are really into this. I meditate with them. You know them. Robbie and John. We could have it in the can in three Hey why not, I could write the songs with you guys.
JIM: Hey why not, I could write the songs with you guys.
RAY: The Stones did it outta the London School of Economics for Chrissake. Things are about to explode man. You can feel it in the air. Vietnam's right out there. Sides are being chosen. People wanna fight or fuck, love or kill, everything's gonna flame. The planet's screaming for change, Morrison. Make the myths There oughta be great orgies man. Like when Dionysus arrived in Greece, he made all the women mad, leaving their homes and dancing off in the mountains. Great golden copulations in the streets of LA. Hey, do you know her?
JIM: There oughta be great orgies man. Like when Dionysus arrived in Greece, he made all the women mad, leaving their homes and dancing off in the mountains. Great golden copulations in the streets of LA. Hey, do you know her?
RAY: What do we call ourselves. "Dionysus"?
JIM: I got a name.
RAY: The Doors.
JIM: The Doors.
RAY: The Doors? That's the most ridiculous. .you mean the doors in your mind? Like the Huxley book.
JIM: "The Doors of Perception"? Acid.
RAY: Yeah sure mescaline experiments reducing the sugar flow to the brain. Great book.
JIM: It's from William Blake actually, the line "when the doors of perception are cleansed things will appear as they truly are."
RAY: ( finishes ) infinite". It's great, Jim.
JIM: So where do we start? How do we start? Where are the girls?
RAY: Rehearsing. You're moving off the rooftop and in with me and Dorothy.
DOORS SONG: Let's swim to the moon Let's climb thru the tide Penetrate the evening That the city sleeps to hide.
JOHN: That's really square. Let's hip it up. Jump on your cues.
RAY: Tighten it up. Stay with the beat Jim. You're dragging.
JIM: Let's try it again, come on. I'm just getting into it.
PAM: ( on floor ) I think it's hot!!
ROBBIE: ( strumming ) I still think the lyrics are weird ( frustrated ) I still think it sounds like the bottom of a fishbowl man.
JOHN: ( frustrated ) I still think it sounds like the bottom of a fishbowl man.
JIM: ( to Robbie, aggravated ) Then you write one man! We need more songs anyway. We all gotta go back and write. I been working on something goes like this. A minor. ( chords his guitar ) "You know that it would be untrue You know that I would be a liar If I was to say to you Girl, we couldn't get much higher" F sharp. chorus "Come on baby, light my fire Try to set the night on fire."
ROBBIE: I been working on something goes like this. A minor. "You know that it would be untrue You know that I would be a liar If I was to say to you Girl, we couldn't get much higher" F sharp. chorus "Come on baby, light my fire Try to set the night on fire."
RAY: Okay man there's some good changes in there.
JIM: Got any more lyrics?
ROBBIE: ( gives Jim a page of lyrics ) Some. I call it "Light My Fire". I figger if I'm gonna compete with your stuff it's gotta be about earth, fire or snakes.
JIM: Don't underestimate Death.
JOHN: Yeah but it sounds like the Byrds man, we're not folk rock man. How 'bout trying it with a Latin beat.
ROBBIE: I thought we could do the usual verse chorus verse chorus and
JOHN: We don't need a bridge.
ROBBIE: Yeah, we could maybe improvise a couple piano and guitar solos over "The time to hesitate is through" Du du duh dud dada . . .
JIM: ( spontaneous ) "No time to wallow in the mire Try now we can only lose And our love become a funeral pyre Come on baby light my fire"
JIM: Pretty good! Pretty neat!!
RAY: ( to John ) Nice groove, John. Chaka chaka chaka, then bula burump bula ( to Robbie ) .you're right, it could take a coupla long solos, that's wild man, like Butterfield did on "East-West" really hip.
ROBBIE: Y'ever heard Coltrane's "Favorite Yeah maybe stretch it out and put it in 4/4 on bass, 3/4 on guitar and Why not! A minor to B minor. Jazz! That then is jazz! But it needs a hook. Something. Give me some space. I need some space. Leave the room guys. Come on! Go!
JOHN: ( hitting the drums ) Yeah maybe stretch it out and put it in 4/4 on bass, 3/4 on guitar and ( clicking, excited ) Why not! A minor to B minor. Jazz! That then is jazz! But it needs a hook. Something. Give me some space. I need some space. Leave the room guys. Come on! Go!
RAY: ( clicking, excited ) Why not! A minor to B minor. Jazz! That then is jazz! But it needs a hook. Something. Give me some space. I need some space. Leave the room guys. Come on! Go!
JOHN: ( irritated at Ray ) Guy's obnoxious, man always bossin' people around! I thought we were Aren't we? ( to Robbie ) That was great Robbie. Whaddaya thinking about when you play?
JIM: Aren't we? That was great Robbie. Whaddaya thinking about when you play?
ROBBIE: Don't know. Mostly the fish in my fish tank.
JIM: ( laughs ) Hey whadya say we take some of that Tijuana acid and see what kinda trouble we can get into tonight?
ROBBIE: The chicks always go for you man. I get the dogs.
JIM: Then we'll start a religion or plan a murder or go to Tijuana.
JOHN: Whatsamatter with you man, what about Pam, you got the morals of a coyote.
JIM: Why you wanna sleep with her John, just to bug me?
JOHN: Hell NO!
JIM: .means "hell yes". She likes you man, she really does and y'all should. What's a rock and roll band for man, if you can't party all night and do bad things?
RAY: ( yelling from the house )
JOHN: Sieg Heil!
RAY: Okay here it is. Bach and Rock. Count it off John
JOHN: ( clicking )
DOORS SONG: You know that it would be untrue etc.
JIM VOICE: ( last session ) The music was new black polished chrome and came over the summer like liquid night.
GIRL GROUPIE: ( approaching, to 2nd girl ) Is that horny motherfucker in the black pants here tonight?
BOUNCER: IDs! IDs! Can't get in without an
GIRL 2: Oh please. I forgot my I.D.. I'm on the list.
BOUNCER: I forgot my list.
RAY: Turn around Jim! Come on let 'em in.
JIM: I found an island in your arms A country in your eyes Arms that chained us, eyes that lied
PAM: ( innocently ) So Jerry. do we get paid for this?
JERRY: ( ignoring her ) What shit, "day destroys the night", "crawl back in your brain", "go insane". What do people wanna pay money to hear that shit.
JIM: ( explains it, gentle ) The greater the suffering, the more terrible the events, the greater the pleasure Jerry. They want it, it's catharsis. Like the ancient Greeks.
JERRY: ( amused ) We're in Los Angeles punk, how would you know, they like your pants, they're not listenin' to you, what the hell they see in you I.
JIM: ( laughs ) But they understand Jerry. All our real desires are unconscious and unseen. . .
JERRY: ( scratching his head ) .you're the weirdest fuckin' guy I You love us?
JIM: You love us?
JERRY: I love ya. You got two more shows to .I got some real tight record company connections, just leave it to me man, I'll take you guys all the fuckin' way, you blew my mind out there.
MANAGER: .I got some real tight record company connections, just leave it to me man, I'll take you guys all the fuckin' way, you blew my mind out there.
RAY: Yeah right, but what about the music?
MANAGER: Hey the music? I love it man, that's why we're talking right? Some of it's a little on the dark side though. Ya know ya oughta get some tunes like Herman's Hermits stuff "Mrs. Brown you got a lovely daughter". That shit goes right to the radio Uh huh. Well, how 'bout gettin' us some real equipment?
RAY: Uh huh. Well, how 'bout gettin' us some real equipment?
MANAGER: Listen, I sign you guys to a five year management contract and you got it all. Equipment. Demo. A truck WITH roadies. Three, maybe four percent record deal. Wherever ya want to go babe, trust me, I'll get you there. Whatd'ya say?
RAY: ( exchanging looks with John ) We'll have a band meeting. The four of us do everything unanimously or we don't do it.
MANAGER: The musketeers. I'm touched. But lemme tell you something loyalty don't pay the bills. Think about it. Call me tomorrow.
JOHN: ( to Ray ) What a sleaze! Man, Jim's gotta start facing the crowd if he's gonna be the front man.
RAY: He's just getting his confidence.
JOHN: He never does what we rehearsed. What's the point of.
RAY: How does it feel?
JOHN: Great, but.
PAM: .make sure you get Barb and Sue Anne to come. And tell them to ask for Jim!
MANAGER: Jim, how old are you?
JIM: Ah, twenty one.
MANAGER: Jesus, you're a gold mine, I'll make it quick and to the point and if you repeat it I'll deny it drop these guys, I'll put you with some real musicians, your voice, your looks, that's what'll sell records, we'll make a million bucks. A year. Goodbye. Call me. I'm right. He gives Jim a card and goes. Pam disgusted with the type, Jim laughs, likes the guy.
JIM: I like a man wears his soul on his "Whiskey's" next, I can feel it in my bones.
RAY: ( coming over ) "Whiskey's" next, I can feel it in my bones.
ROBBIE: I still think the lyrics are weird.
JIM: ( to Ray, innocently ) Jesus Ray, every girl out there wanted to fuck me, I could feel it for the first time!
RAY: Right on stud. But you better watch out for the guys.
JIM: ( to the band ) Guys, I'm serious about the desert, we still gotta deepen man, we gotta take some peyote all of us together, we got one more stage to I don't know man, fucks up my playing. I been playing music for 10 years man and this is the first time in my whole damned life I ever played it.
ROBBIE: I don't know man, fucks up my playing. I been playing music for 10 years man and this is the first time in my whole damned life I ever played it.
JIM: Are you satisfied?
JOHN: Will you get off my case! I'm never doing acid again. Too many bad trips It's not acid John, it's peyote. It's a bonding ceremony. It's got to be more. more. more.
JIM: It's not acid John, it's peyote. It's a bonding ceremony. It's got to be more. more. more.
JOHN: I'm into TM man. I promised my guru.
PAM: I want to! I want to! I'm ready. Let's go to the desert. do the peyote, the good peyote.
JIM: ( to girl in line ) Who's on now?
GIRL 1: ( withering look, very hip ) Yeah, Arthur Lee's cool.
JIM: Yeah, Arthur Lee's cool.
GIRL 1: They're the best. better'n the You mean the Marx Brothers of music, we could blow 'em away.
JIM: You mean the Marx Brothers of music, we could blow 'em away.
GIRL 2: And who are you?
JIM: The Doors. We're up the street at the Fog.
GIRL 1: ( contempt ) The Doors. I heard of you. That's the dumbest name. I wouldn't go to the Fog if you paid me.
JIM: Oh yeah what would you do for money?
PAM: Let's go Jim, come on.
JOHN: So you don't have a phone number? What do you mean you don't have a phone number?
GIRL 2: I don't have a phone number. So give me your number then.
JOHN: I don't have a phone.
GIRL 1: ( intrigued, to Jim ) Well, would you leave my name at the Well I don't know. What's your name?
JIM: Well I don't know. What's your name?
GIRL 1: Caprice? That's the dumbest name I ever heard.
JIM: Caprice? That's the dumbest name I ever heard.
JIM: Hey! I am the Lizard king. I can do Anything! Raise your hands if you understand! Alive, any of you alive let's take a poll how many of you know you're really alive!!
JIM: No one? Raise your hands c'mon man. let's go.
JIM: Everybody having a good time?
JIM: .awright, pretty good, it gets
JIM: WOA!! It's fast.
JIM: When the serpent appears, his head is ten feet long and five feet wide. He has one red eye and one green eye. He's deadly and he's seven miles long. As he moves on his scales is written all the history of the world, all people, all actions, all of us our little pictures on the scales, God it's big! and it's eating as it moves all the time, devouring, digesting consciousness, power, a monster of energy!
JIM: We must kiss the snake on the tongue, if it senses our fear, it will eat us instantly. But if we kiss it without fear, the snake will take us through the garden and out the gate. To our freedom -we must ride this snake. To the end of time.
JOHN: I think I'm fucked up. I'm not thinking right.
JIM: You're fucked up John. Go with it, confusion is the sound of creation.
JOHN: You should see your eyes right now, you're death. Look at your eyes you're crazy man, you look crazy. You scare me.
JIM: No no no John John. God is crazy too. God is part insane as well as sane. Not in control all the time. Dionysus was the God of the wine. He made ecstasy but he also made madness. Madness is all right. That's what you want, isn't it, isn't it? Where's that joint?
ROBBIE: ( crying ) I get scared thinking of all the choices inside. I could go. I could stay. I can live anywhere. I could die now if I wanted. It's limitless choice. and no one cares.
JIM: Die Robbie.
JOHN: What the fuck!
PAM: ( wandering in ) I don't know what I am. I'm on the cusp of Sagittarius and Capricorn. Sagittarius is wild and Capricorn domestic and safe, so I don't know which one to be.
JIM: I love you.
DOROTHY: ( into the same lens ) Oh my God, the light, it's so beautiful Ray. Can you see it. it's all one. honey?
RAY: I'm in pain man. I want something from the peyote. I feel the universe functioning perfectly but I'm still perfectly locked inside myself. Instead of Oneness, I feel total Isolation. Aloneness. Fear. Pain. Jim, all I feel is pain.
JIM: Pain makes me feel more alive Ray. Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain but they're I feel Lust. I want to fuck everything I can, and I know it will never be Pam wants you. You're a good Catholic John, you want it so you can feel guilty about it. Fuck death away John.
JOHN: I feel Lust. I want to fuck everything I can, and I know it will never be Pam wants you. You're a good Catholic John, you want it so you can feel guilty about it. Fuck death away John.
JIM: ( whispers ) Pam wants you. ( normal ) You're a good Catholic John, you want it so you can feel guilty about it. Fuck death away John.
ROBBIE: I feel Fear. so bad I just numb out all my feelings. I'm afraid of my father, I'm afraid of Yahweh. I wish I could play my guitar.
JIM: Maybe you should kill your father Robbie. He tried to kill you. Kill I'm so fucking scared.
ROBBIE: I'm so fucking scared.
JIM: But you're Alive! It's beautiful! Fear, pain, lust, we've got to know all our feelings before we can come out the other side free men. Don't feel ashamed of yourselves, don't let society destroy your reality. Our freedom's the only thing worth dying for, it's the only thing worth living for!
JOHN: ( cold sweats ) I'm not gonna make it man. I'm scared Jim, I'm still scared. Blindness is coming on.
JIM: Then use us John, use our strength, it's us four now, a tribe of warriors, everything we have comes from the same source, the great Creator of Being. Trust him, trust us. Ride the snake. . . I promise you I will be with you till the end of time. My wild love went riding. mmmmmm. She rode all the day. She ride to the devil. And ask for him to pay. shooo shoooo
JIM: My wild love went riding. mmmmmm. She rode all the day. She ride to the devil. And ask for him to pay. shooo shoooo
JIM: ( ad lib ) .she went to the desert she went to the sea Joseph we did see.
JIM: ( to himself ) .I'm lying to you. I am scared.
JOHN: Jim, where are you going.
JIM: ( looking back ) I'll be back. I gotta go alone.
PAM: Jim! Jim. come here, dance. don't go away.
DOORS SONG: Can you picture what will be So limitless and free Desperately in need of some stranger's hand in a desperate Lost in a Roman wilderness of pain and all the children are insane: waiting for the summer rain
FLASHBACKS: INT. CAR - MOVING - DESERT JIM, 4, in the back of a car in the desert looking back. At the overturned truck, the bodies in the road. at the older Indian looking at him. finally at the dying Indian. his eyes.
DOORS SONG: There's danger on the edge of town Ride the King's highway Weird scenes inside the gold mine Ride the King's highway west, baby The sound of a rattle "shichishichi" he realizes he's being watched. By what? He whips his eyes everywhere. A large LIZARD perches on a boulder assesses him calmly, tatters of a former skin clinging to its throat, spits a forked tongue and drills its black pearly eyes into his skull. Now the sound of the Bull-Roarer, whipping the air, announcing the appearance of the shaman. Jim's struck with an overwhelming sense of. awe. ancient mysteries. He turns. The lizard is looking at him. The GHOST of the DEAD INDIAN is also looking at him. We are looking at JIM from its point of view a blur of light, some headdress, a sense of skins. music drops back, no lyrics. the voice is old, familiar, possible Spanish descent dialect or huararchi.
DOORS SONG: Ride the snake Ride the snake, to the lake The ancient lake The snake is long, seven miles Ride the snake He's old, and his skin is cold Camera pulling out from his eyes. There's something different tonight. Something in the air. His eyes are open, he's facing outward, gripping the mike for his life, hair falling in his face, dripping sweat, we sense all his soul concentrated in what he has to say. Cliques of GROUPIES have staked claims at the foot of the stage, eyes fucking him as he writhes, spreading his legs. Every twitch, every moment he sucks out the tension on the musical interludes generates a whip of a reaction in his Nobody is moving in the club. The DANCERS are still, the GO GO GIRLS in their white plastic boots and dresses hang motionless in their gilded cages. Even the WAITRESSES have stopped, frozen with their trays, denying something is going to happen. PAMELA, DOROTHY. JERRY from the Fog, also the manager of this place, watches from the balcony, shaking his head, doesn't understand. Panning to two RECORD TYPES with him JAC HOLZMAN, distinguished six footer, suit, and PAUL ROTHCHILD, funky, pigtailed, ex-con, early 30s.
JIM: The killer awoke before dawn He put his boots on He took a face from the ancient And he walked on down the hall
JIM: He went to the room where his sister And he paid a visit to his brother And then he went on down the hall.
JIM: And he came to a door, And he looked inside "Father?" "Yes, son?" "I want to kill you".
JIM: Mother. I want to.
JIM: YOOOOOUUUUUUUUUU!!!!! FUCK YOU ALL
AAAAAAAGGGGGGGHHHHHHH: YOOOOOUUUUUUUUUU!!!!! FUCK YOU ALL
NIGHT!: The SCREAMS primal, pure Jim Indian savagery ripped from the depths of his soul, of his pain bouncing off the As the AUDIENCE gasps, shocked, stunned. As the guitar hits a high, horrid reverb, JIM in slightly SLOW MOTION suddenly tightens his backbone as if electrocuted and shoots violently backwards, hitting the floor like a puppet cut from his string we sense Jim himself has crossed a barrier now, gone into yet another stage of his performance, a stage from which he can never return. Like the gunfighter who has killed his first man. RAY sees it instantly where it's going, hits the organ! Robbie and John follow. the instruments EXPLODE all at once trying to bury Jim in his primal unmistakeable scream. The CLUB in shock. Tribal taboo broken in one instant. Jerry exploding off the balcony toward the stage. Pamela, extremely moved and impressed, and Dorothy. the go- go girls, as jaded as they come, are stunned tension. the groupies love it. Jim has jumped up now, dancing an Indian war dance around the mike.
JIM: Come on baby take a chance with us
JERRY: NOBODY'S GONNA FUCK THEIR MOTHER ON MY STAGE! YOU'RE OUTTA HERE. You don't ever come back to play, you don't ever come back to drink You're DEAD ON THE STRIP!
JIM: ( ranting back at him ) Kill the father, fuck the mother, kill the father, fuck the mother that's what I'm into! That's what I'm into!
JERRY: You MORRISON! You're fucking filthy twisted perverse punk, get back to your fucking sewer!!
JIM: ( calmly smiling ) You have the face of a pig man. JERRY JERRY. He was talking about Oedipus! GREEK TRAGEDY!! It's ART!!
RAY: JERRY JERRY. He was talking about Oedipus! GREEK TRAGEDY!! It's ART!!
JERRY: FUCK ART!! GET THE FUCK ART OUT!!!
JOURNALIST: NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE THE DOORS NEVER!! GET A PHOTOGRAPHER DOWN HERE. "ROLLING STONE'S GOTTA SEE THIS!!
JIM: TAKE A LONG LOOK OLD MAN. WE ARE THE FUTURE. WE ARE THINGS TO COME. FUCK YOU. YOU'RE FUCKING DEAD!
JERRY: FUCK YOU. YOU'RE FUCKING DEAD!
PAUL: Come on Jerry, cool it, cool it. he's a kid, it's a song about dying,
JOHN: ( to RAY and ROBBIE ) We'll never work again man. The Mafia controls all these clubs.
HOLZMAN: ( to Ray and Robbie ) Quite a night! Hi, I'm Jac Holzman. I own Elektra Records.
RAY: ( knows the name ) Oh sure, hi.
HOLZMAN: Listen. I think if you could just put what you did in there on record, we could really have something. and we could make a lot of money.
RAY: John and Robbie sharing looks.
HOLZMAN: ( pointing to ROTHCHILD coming up ) Yeah. and Rothchild here was born to be your producer.
ROBBIE: ( recognizing Paul ) Hey, the guy that did Butterfield!
PAUL: Bertold Brecht, cabaret and rock. Give me a fucking break. You guys are amazing! Let's go make a record.
JIM: ( to Ray, pointing back at Jerry ) Hey, is that asshole gonna pay us?
HOLZMAN: ( amused ) Why don't you go inside and ask him
DOORS SONG: You know that it would be untrue You know that I would be a liar If I was to say to you Girl, we couldn't get much higher Camera moving fast thru the control room, past the ENGINEER ( BRUCE BOTNICK ), taciturn, 20's, the PRODUCER ( PAUL ROTHCHILD ) in pig heaven, and the owner JAC HOLZMAN in his blue suit
PAUL: Hey Bruce, you feel it?
BRUCE: I'm having big fun.
PAUL: ( to Jac ) I got goosebumps Jac. This is history going down here. An album of killer music in six days. six days.
JIM: Come on baby, LIGHT MY FIIIRRRREEEE!!!
JIM: ( after song ) Pretty good! Pretty neat!
JIM: ( singing ) The time to hesitate is through No time to wallow in the mire.
JIM: Try now we can only lose And our love become a funeral pyre Come on baby, light my fire Try to set the night on
FIIIIIIIIIRE!!!!!: BODYGUARDS running in to pull him out as he's tossed, like a limp god, over the heads of the crowd, rolling like a buoy on a rocking sea, from hand to hand, Dionysus, devoured limb from limb by the "little girls". PAMELA watching from the side curtain. ALABAMA SONG ( WHISKY BAR ) now kicks in with its comic, Brechtian strain as we:
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
DOORS SONG: Oh show me the way to the next whisky bar Oh don't ask why Oh don't ask why
JIM: ( real close, hugging her ) I don't mind dying in a plane crash, a smile on my face.
PAMELA: ( cutting his food ) As compared to what?
JIM: I just don't want to go out slow brain tumor, botulism. I want to feel what it's like, cause death is only going to happen to you once.
PAMELA: I don't want to die ever, what a weird thing to say.
DOORS SONG: For if we don't find the next whisky bar I tell you we must die I tell you I tell you I tell you we must die
DOORS SONG: Oh moon of Alabama We now must say goodbye We've lost our good ol mama We must have whiskey oh you know why
DOORS SONG: Show me the way to the next little girl Oh don't ask why Oh don't ask why The GIRLS crying hysterically as Jim lazily, leopardly, moves across the CROWD, almost like Oswald waiting for the Ruby bullet but with that sweet, pleasant smile on his face, dark glasses concealing.
GIRLS: ( faint ) Oh Jimmmmm, pleeeaaase look, I looove youuuuu, Jimmmmmm, pleeeeeaase, Jimmmmm, here, sign miiiine. take a picture Jim?. Jim, Jim, oh please look at me Jim!!
DOORS SONG: For if we don't find the next little girl I tell you we must die I tell you I tell you I tell you we must die
PRODUCER: Right this way Mr. Sullivan. They're called "the Doors". They got the number one single in the country "Light Your Fire".
SULLIVAN: "Light Your Fire"? Is that sooo?
PRODUCER: They look pretty grungy but we're.
JOHN: ( indignant ) You're gonna cut it!
HAIRDRESSER: ( doing John ) No, I'm going to worship it. What kind of shampoo are you using?
JOHN: The kind you get in hotels.
HAIRDRESSER: Pamper yourself sweetheart, you don't want split ends, you're a celebrity You have very serious-serious hair, it needs to rebel. I'll give it a tinge of something freaky.
RAY: I'd rather stay the same color.
HAIRDRESSER: Scaredy cat.
ROBBIE: What about me?
HAIRDRESSER: ( a look ) Honey, we don't have enough time.
TV NEWSMAN: .here in Detroit, 42 people dead, more than 2000 injured. 1400 buildings burned, 5000 people have just lost their homes as Detroit joins more than 100 cities torn by riots this hot summer!
JIM: No wonder "Light My Fire's" number What about you handsome?
HAIRDRESSER: ( to JIM ) What about you handsome?
JIM: ( friendly ) The biggest mistakes in my life have been haircuts.
PAM: Don't wash it. Don't set it. He likes it the way it is.
HAIRDRESSER: ( backing off ) All right, be mean.
PRODUCER: Boys meet Mr. Sullivan
SULLIVAN: Hi boys, heard your song "Light That .think you're great. good luck out there.
DOORS: ( ad lib ) Oh thanks Mr. Sullivan.
PRODUCER: ( moving alongside Ray ) Well the guys at Network have told us they have a small problem with the lyrics "girl we couldn't get much higher". You can't say "higher" on network so they asked if. you could say, "girl we can't get much better". can you dig that?
JIM: How 'bout, "girl you couldn't bite my wire".
PRODUCER: I don't think Standards and Practices Look, you boys don't forget to smile now. Don't be so sullen out there.
SULLIVAN: Look, you boys don't forget to smile now. Don't be so sullen out there.
JIM: Uh well, we're kind of a sullen group,
SIDDONS: We'll work it out Herb, promise. Give me five.
PRODUCER: ( not totally convinced, exiting ) Groovy! Uh you boys should know Mr. Sullivan is considering you boys for four more shows. You dig? What are we the Beatles now John?
JOHN: What are we the Beatles now John?
JIM: What are we the Beatles now John?
RAY: ( laughs ) It's only a word man. The Stones Hey Ray, why don't you change your name to Sid or Irving Manzarek or something. it's only a word y'know.
JIM: Hey Ray, why don't you change your name to Sid or Irving Manzarek or something. it's only a word y'know.
ROBBIE: It's my words. I don't care, let's just jam.
SULLIVAN: Now here on our stage direct from Los Angeles, California, ladies and gentlemen, The Doors! What's that?. oh Jesus!. get off it!! Where's he going?
PRODUCER: ( in control booth ) What's that?. oh Jesus!. get off it!! Where's he going?
PRODUCER: ( hyperventilating ) He said it! He said it! On National TV You can't do that! You can't do that!!! You blew it you little shit! You'll never play Ed Sullivan again.
JIM: Come on baby, light my fire Try to set the night on FIIIIRRRRRE!
PAM: ( tender ) What can I do, what do you want me to do?. Jim?
JIM: I don't know. I guess I should see a doctor or something. maybe I should go to someone of the straight Jungian philosophy.
PAM: It happens to other guys too.
JIM: It's so scary up there. To be adored. Isn't that irony? Teenage death girls want my dick a mere clown not my words. I'll never wake up in a good mood again. Lament for my cock, a tongue of knowledge deep in the feathered night, gives life, soar and crucify, I seek to know It's not so complicated Jim, it's just sex, y'know.
PAM: It's not so complicated Jim, it's just sex, y'know.
JIM: You should marry an insurance It's the hours man, the pressure, everything's like your last performance, you're setting yourself We weren't built to last.
PAM: It's the hours man, the pressure, everything's like your last performance, you're setting yourself We weren't built to last.
JIM: We weren't built to last.
PAM: Aren't you doing this for you, because you're a poet, not a rock star. Ed Sullivan's not a place for you.
JIM: You really know what I am Pam? You know what poetry is? Where is the feast they promised us? Where is the wine the new wine dying on the What are you saying!
PAM: What are you saying!
JIM: Y'see I lied to you. I really love Fame.
PAM: ( Here we go ) Why are you doing this to me?
JIM: ( drinks ) 'Cause you're in the room.
PAM: And this is gonna help! It's probably the cause. 'Least put some soul in your success asshole!
JIM: Maybe you're the cause!
PAM: I mean I don't have this problem with anybody else.
JIM: I mean I don't have this problem with anybody else.
PAM: ( getting the bottle ) Give it to me!!!
JIM: ( getting it back ) No!!!!! Mommy!!!
PAM: ( gives up, tries to exit ) Fuck you man I'm outta here.
JIM: ( excited now ) Get mad! Yeahhh! Love my girl! Yeah, go fuck the other guys. How many white guys have you fucked Pam? 10, 20? Black guys what? You like Chinese dicks? Mongolian penis? 30?
PAM: ( fighting ) .how many dogs have you fucked! You don't say No to anybody! Drugs, dogs, uglies, you'd fuck a doorknob with butter on it!
JIM: How could I do that
PAM: ( shouting top of her lungs ) You're the first one who couldn't make it with me anyway! You're the only limp dick in the lot!!!
DOORS SONG: Wild Child full of grace Savior of the human race Your cool face Natural child, terrible child Not your mother or your father's child Your own child, screaming wild
JIM: HA HA HA!! WILL YOU DIE FOR ME! NO! WILL YOU DIE FOR ME!! I'D DIE FOR ANYBODY. WHAT ABOUT ME! WHAT ABOUT ME! CUNT CUNT CUNT. LIAR LIAR LIAR. YOU PROMISED. YOU I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
PAM: NO! WILL YOU DIE FOR ME!! I'D DIE FOR ANYBODY. WHAT ABOUT ME! WHAT ABOUT ME! CUNT CUNT CUNT. LIAR LIAR LIAR. YOU PROMISED. YOU I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
JIM: I'D DIE FOR ANYBODY. WHAT ABOUT ME! WHAT ABOUT ME! CUNT CUNT CUNT. LIAR LIAR LIAR. YOU PROMISED. YOU I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
PAM: WHAT ABOUT ME! WHAT ABOUT ME! CUNT CUNT CUNT. LIAR LIAR LIAR. YOU PROMISED. YOU I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
JIM: CUNT CUNT CUNT. LIAR LIAR LIAR. YOU PROMISED. YOU I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
PAM: LIAR LIAR LIAR. YOU PROMISED. YOU I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
JIM: I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
VOICE: SHADDUP WILLYA. I'M TRYING TO THEN MOVE TO MIAMI YOU SLAVE!!! You were saying?
SLEEP!!!!: THEN MOVE TO MIAMI YOU SLAVE!!! You were saying?
JIM: THEN MOVE TO MIAMI YOU SLAVE!!! You were saying?
JIM: ( quietly ) You were saying?
JIM: ( low ) .will you die for me, Pam, a clown, a despicable clown?. a mere despicable clown?
PAM: Yes yes yes.
JIM: .I need a home. A place to hide.
PAM: .with me. Yes. yes.
JIM: ( mumbling ) .how could we make a home?. where there's sanctuary?
PAM: .yes, yes, yes.
JIM: .we're in Africa, we're just animals. I wanna stay inside you all night baby. let's fuck death away, now fuck death away.
PAM: INT. PRESS CONFERENCE - HOTEL SUITE NEW YORK - DAY Camera moving in past the buffet, champagne, flowers in the hotel suite overlooking CENTRAL PARK. to the DOORS in armchairs surrounded by an informal group of a DOZEN JOURNALISTS and PRESS PHOTOGRAPHERS. JIM behind dark shades drinking long Hawaiian fruit punches, decked out in snakeskin.
JOURNALIST 1: ( stiff, Times type ) What are your songs about Mr.
JIM: Uh love death travel. revolt. We all write the songs, we're interested in anything about disorder, chaos, especially activity which seems to have no meaning. I think when you make peace with authority, you become Can you define that a little more?
JOURNALIST 1: Can you define that a little more?
JIM: Yeah you can call us erotic politicians I guess.
JOURNALIST 2: Do you really consider yourself a shaman Mr. Morrison?
JIM: .a scapegoat maybe I take on the audiences' fantasies, obeying their impulses. When the impulses are destructive, I'm destructive. It's kinda like sucking the puss out of a rattlesnake, something like .like a medicine man or witch Jim said to me once, the history of rock and roll's like Greek drama or caveman stories. The audience comes to see ancient rituals in ancient caves. Their souls in jeopardy. They're not watching any longer, they're participating and everything's in play, your life, your death.
JOURNALIST 1: ( smiling ) .like a medicine man or witch ( cuts in ) Jim said to me once, the history of rock and roll's like Greek drama or caveman stories. The audience comes to see ancient rituals in ancient caves. Their souls in jeopardy. They're not watching any longer, they're participating and everything's in play, your life, your death.
RAY: ( cuts in ) Jim said to me once, the history of rock and roll's like Greek drama or caveman stories. The audience comes to see ancient rituals in ancient caves. Their souls in jeopardy. They're not watching any longer, they're participating and everything's in play, your life, your death.
JOURNALIST 1: ( glib ) Is that why they scream so much? ( more down to earth ) Mr. Morrison, how do you feel about being called the "ultimate barbie
JOURNALIST 3: ( more down to earth ) Mr. Morrison, how do you feel about being called the "ultimate barbie
JIM: I guess when you say something like that, it's a shortcut to thinking.
JOURNALIST 3: Then do you "think" about the dreadful reviews your new poetry book has
JIM: ( softly ) I guess they didn't understand.
JOURNALIST 3: ( having scored ) And it's true you financed it's
RAY: ( angry ) Have you bothered to read the poetry ma'm? You keep denying that anything good can come from L.A., I mean isn't that kind of a provincial attitude? That Bob Dylan's the only poet cause he's from the East Coast, but you won't even look past Jim's goddamn looks at the words man!
JIM: ( embarrassed ) Hey c'mon Ray, hate should be allowed.
JOURNALIST 1: .but what really are your songs about Mr. Morrison? You preach, "saving the planet", "making a new age" but how does drinking, taking drugs, this boozy sort of apocalyptic stance at the world influence young people in a positive way?
JIM: I like that "boozy apocalyptic" you're a word man, but how does your newspaper influence young people to think about Vietnam? Who's sending the soldiers over there to die? The establishment right? Your newspaper right? That seems to me a lot more dangerous than the stuff we do.
JOURNALIST 3: Do you believe in drugs Mr. Morrison?
JIM: ( graciously disdainful ) Did you know Nietzsche said, "all good consciousness, all evidence of truth comes only from the senses"? Hey you wanna arm wrestle? Come on, you look pretty tough today. C'mon, I'll take you all on.
JOURNALIST 3: ( ignoring his smile ) And alcohol? Is that considered part of the shaman's wisdom?
JIM: Part of the clown's wisdom it's kinda the American way. You know we spend more on alcohol and tobacco than on education.
JOURNALIST 3: Are you by any chance in a trance now Mr. Morrison?
JIM: Do you hurt?
JOURNALIST 3: What hurts you the most?
JIM: What hurts you the most?
JOURNALIST 3: What are you doing?
JIM: Uh. got tired of the barbie doll look. It hurt.
JOURNALIST 3: Are you serious?
JIM: ( cutting hair blindly ) About? Y'know when people are joking, I find they are dead serious and when they're dead serious, I find them funny.
JOURNALIST 4: What do your parents think about what you are doing?
JIM: ( pause ) Actually, I don't really remember being born. It musta happened during one of my blackouts.
JOURNALIST 4: But they must've expressed some Well, to be honest they're not living anymore so I don't like to talk about
JIM: ( pause ) Well, to be honest they're not living anymore so I don't like to talk about
JOURNALIST 4: Could you at least tell us how they
JIM: Oh, it was a. horrible car crash. in the desert in the fifties, Arizona. ran right into a truckload of Indians. Navajos, they were lying out on the road, all bleeding, and I was with my Grandma and Grandad, we were banged up and all. and I was looking at my Dad and he was lying there. but his throat was severed and there was air coming
JOURNALIST 4: I'm sorry.
JOURNALIST 2: I have the feeling I'm being put on.
JIM: Y'all believe what you want to believe, you will anyway. but it does kinda show you what excites Fear, pity, horror all those good things that count. It's sorta I guess like being on the edge of an orgasm, y'know. that mystery just before you come. When? If? Should I? Will you die for me, eat me, this way, the end.
PATRICIA: You want to do some more cocaine? It'll loosen you up.
JIM: Great! A new thing.
JIM: Wow how old is this?
PATRICIA: ( snorting ) 14th Century. I practice the Craft.
JIM: The Craft?
PATRICIA: I'm a witch A white one.
JIM: ( impressed ) Wow! You Patricia? Who would've
PATRICIA: The Kennealy's were Celtic cheiftains and pre-Christian shamans when your Druid ancestors the Morrisons were a minor Scottish clan founded by a bastard son of the king of Norway.
PATRICIA: It's a religion, witchcraft. Witches are the protectors of the seasons, the harvests, goddesses of the grain. And when crossed, destroyers. You ever try drinking blood?
PATRICIA: You ever try drinking blood?
JIM: It works you know. You drink blood the right time of the moon. they used to dance in the forests naked. I think that's what offended the Puritans and led to the Burnings. They were a sexual threat to their male order like the Bacchae five days a year for Dionysus, they used to wander the hills in ancient Greece, the first witches, clans of wild women fucking, looting, eating animals raw, the wine in their blood running hot looking for Dionysus. to tear him to pieces isn't that Where do you get the blood?
PATRICIA: It works you know. You drink blood the right time of the moon. they used to dance in the forests naked. I think that's what offended the Puritans and led to the Burnings. They were a sexual threat to their male order like the Bacchae five days a year for Dionysus, they used to wander the hills in ancient Greece, the first witches, clans of wild women fucking, looting, eating animals raw, the wine in their blood running hot looking for Dionysus. to tear him to pieces isn't that Where do you get the blood?
JIM: ( hooked ) Where do you get the blood?
PATRICIA: Blood is the rose of mysterious union, symbol of potency. now you.
JIM: No. I don't like. cutting myself.
PATRICIA: ( stern ) Don't be such a child! If I do it, you have to do it.
DOORS SONG: Before you slip into unconsciousness I'd like to have another kiss Another flashing chance at bliss Another kiss, another kiss
PATRICIA: ( sexy ) Come on rock god, fuck me, fuck me
JIM: ( lips out of sync ) I'm gonna burn you down.
PATRICIA: Come on.
PATRICIA: Cut me! Cut me go on!
JIM: ( knife to her cheek ) Nobody'd ever look at you again 'cept me. I'd scar you forever.
PATRICIA: Yeah YEAH!
JIM: AWRIGHT! AWRIGHT! FUCK ME! FUCK ME!! GO ON FUCK ME!!!
AWRIGHT! AWRIGHT!: FUCK ME! FUCK ME!! GO ON FUCK ME!!!
PATRICIA: FUCK ME! FUCK ME!! GO ON FUCK ME!!!
DOORS SONG: The crystal ship is being filled A thousand girls, a thousand thrills A million ways to spend your time When we get back I'll drop a line The camera shooting up to the ceiling in a tilting dutch angle as the world comes unglued. Jim yelling with release.
GLORIA: Take off your shirt.
JIM: ( cow noise ) ( taking his shirt off ) You remind me of a Russian peasant. I see you standing in a wheat field. The pride, the arrogance. You love to look at yourself don't you. You love yourself. ( he's moving, getting into it ) .good. big cat stalking.
GLORIA: ( taking his shirt off ) You remind me of a Russian peasant. I see you standing in a wheat field. The pride, the arrogance. You love to look at yourself don't you. You love yourself. ( he's moving, getting into it ) .good. big cat stalking.
GLORIA: .the camera is like a roulette wheel Jim. It becomes whoever you want it to be a woman you want to seduce, a man you want to kill, a mother you want to upset, a wife you want to lie to or love, whatever you want it to be, it is.
JIM: ( pausey, paranoid ) Where are the Doors.
GLORIA: Forget the Doors. It's you they want, Jim. You're the Doors.
JIM: ( scared suddenly ) We do everything together.
GLORIA: You control the audience, like dogs, manipulate them Jim, one picture can control a million people, be anything you want growl at them, be ugly, be frightened, be selfish. Be man, woman, whild, animal. Live, die, return again. Anything you want. Everything is permitted.
GLORIA: Go on look at yourself, fall in love with yourself. You're your own audience now Jim. They want you. Worship and love and adore you.
GLORIA: .Jim Morrison, the god of Rock and I am the snake and you are the lute
JIM: I am the snake and you are the lute
GLORIA: Our camera dwells on Jim in the mirror, closer, closer the image and the reality, which is which anymore where does it end? The Great Jim Morrison, The Shaman, then Pamela, Patricia, Gloria, a series of women who face after face fill the ancient gallery, interchangeable masks as PEOPLE ARE STRANGE climaxes and JIM's face SPINS OUT OPTICALLY TO:
DOORS SONG: People are strange when you're a stranger Faces look ugly when you're alone Women seem wicked when you're unwanted Streets are uneven when you're down
DOORS SONG: When you're strange Faces come out of the rain When you're strange No one remembers your name When you're strange When you're strange When you're strange
PR MAN: ( cool ) You must meet Andy Warhol, Jim. He's more than an artist. Andy is art. Bright people in America wonder does Andy imitate life, or does life imitate Andy. The meeting of two kings. Yes, Come.
PAMELA: Oh Jim this is Tom. Baker, he's an actor, he was in Andy's movie and this is Count Ruspoli. He lives in Paris, but he's Italian. He's from a very famous family over there. They're seven hundred years old.
COUNT: ( Italian accent ) Hi Jim, you are great. I see you at Ondine's with Bobby and Jimmy.
PAM: ( pawing at Jim ) Don't you like the way he talks. Isn't he cool?
JIM: ( annoyed with Pam ) Yeah. hey what's your trip?
TOM: ( cutting in ) Saw your gig at 'The Scene'. Hot. very hot. You strung out? Here. Try this. ( pill, popper, joint, a drink, all at once )
JIM: Love your movies man. What a great
RAY: Come on, we're splitting man. Dorothy's waiting at the door. We'll get a bite at Max's and.
JIM: You can't leave. Where's your will to be weird man?
JOHN: Get outta here man. This is fucking weird man. Right this way Jim. Andy's in the Don't go, y'see Norman Mailer, I hear he's here?
PR MAN: Right this way Jim. Andy's in the Don't go, y'see Norman Mailer, I hear he's here?
JIM: ( to RAY ) Don't go, y'see Norman Mailer, I hear he's here?
RAY: Yeah can we meet him, he's great. just like he is. You wanna meet him?
JIM: ( paranoid ) I don't know. did he know who you Yeah sure, he's cool, come on, he's your hero!
RAY: Yeah sure, he's cool, come on, he's your hero!
JIM: Nah. later. Hey Jim, this is Jake Johnson, you remember Jake Johnson the astronaut, he's just got back from outer space.
EDIE: ( echoey voice ) Hey Jim, this is Jake Johnson, you remember Jake Johnson the astronaut, he's just got back from outer space.
JAKE JOHNSON: I like the Doors, I like the Doors, I like the Doors.
JIM: I like outer space.
TOM: Hey where's my joint? There's this chick sings with the Velvet Underground, Andy's band. She says she can drink you under the
NICO: I'm Nico. It's boring tonight. Some of us are going downtown to a new club. You want to come?
TOM: ( distantly heard ) .elevate your taste in trolls man.
JIM: ( to Nico who reaches for her vodka ) Vodka? Race you.
NICO: Your death.
JIM: ( to Ray and Robbie ) Wanna go?. Come on let's go.
ROBBIE: She looks too freaky to me.
NICO: Wait just a minute.
JIM: Come on there's pussy Robbie.
ROBBIE: ( excited ) Hey I met this chick Lynne, she wants to be alone.
RAY: Come on Jim, let's go.
JIM: ( childlike ) Don't you guys wanna meet Andy Warhol?
JOHN: Tell you the truth, I can live without him. He's a freak. Let's get outta here. We got a show tomorrow.
JIM: Come on man! I thought we were gonna be a band, the four of us and party all night, rock and roll!
RAY: ( laughs ) I could never keep up with you Jim. I couldn't make the music.
JIM: ( desperate mockery, grabs Ray ) Don't go. Don't leave! You can't leave. I don't know what will happen. It might be Death.
RAY: Come on Jim, this isn't our scene, these people are vampires. We gotta stick together man, the four of us. Let's make the myths man.
PR MAN: Right here Jim, right here. Andy's waiting. You know what you have in common is uniqueness.
DOORS SONG: Strange days have found us Strange days have tracked us down They're going to destroy Our casual joys We shall go on playing or find a new town Past a cache of QUEENS in white leather ogling Jim, one of them coming over boldly, chatting him up ( AD LIB dimly heard ), them grabbing his crotch and kissing him. Jim rearing back, laughing but wary. Past the RICH LADIES dripping with jewels and faces peeled from Brazilian sleep tanks and Swiss knives. Past a YOUNG MAN dressed in Jim Morrison leather pants with his hair and eye make-up, a warped image of Jim, smiling back at him.
JIM: ( looking for Nico )
WARHOL: Well, it was such a big opening, we just had to go to Philadelphia, y'know, you were supposed to, mmm.
PR GUY: ( butting in ) Andy! Andy!
ANDY: .but so many people showed up, the paintings were getting crushed, so they took them all down. um, it really looked great y'know. maybe
PR MAN: ( cutting in ) .the walls. The blank walls. Andy was the art. Should do a show. Just walls. Today it's really about people, not what they do. It's the astronaut that matters, not the voyage, the actor, not the movie how do I say, it's the trip, not arriving.
PR MAN: ( babbling on ) .you know what Andy says, some day everybody's gonna be famous for 15 seconds, but it won't mean anything.
BAKER: That's too short. I need a coupla
ANDY: We'd just love to have you in our movies Jim, you're so beautiful, you'd be so good, you mmmm, here. this is for you Jim. Edie gave this to me and said mmmmm, I could talk to God with this. But I don't really have anything to say. So. mmmm now you can talk to God. Oh hi!
ANDY: Edie gave this to me and said mmmmm, I could talk to God with this. But I don't really have anything to say. So. mmmm now you can talk to God. Oh hi!
DOORS SONG: Strange days have found us And through their strange hours We linger alone Nico reappears waving at him to come quickly.
NICO: EXT. NEW YORK STREET - NIGHT ( WINTER ) SNOW on the streets. a group of DRUGGIES staggering in the snowbanks, throwing snowballs, stupid giggling, wheezing puffs of cold air. Jim throws the golden telephone into the trash and pees on IRIS SHOTS continue PAMELA laughing battily with TOM BAKER who's putting the make on her. The COUNT is on heroin. JIM passing a vodka bottle back and forth with NICO hitting a stash of ups. They fall in the snow, mad Russian winter.
DOORS SONG: Bodies confused Memories misused As we run from the day To a strange night of stone
DOORS SONG: Strange days have found us Strange days have tracked us down
TECHIE: ( at mike ) Testing one-two-three. Testing.
PROMOTER: ( on mike ) Look, the Fire Marshall's not gonna let the show go on. Either you go back to your seats, you go to the aisle, you don't do that no show!
CROWD: ( pushing towards stage, no aisles )
JIM: "Lord Byron"? Really. You think? You like the poems?
PATRICIA: Like? I loved them! "Mad bad and dangerous to know." That's what they said about him. Your poems should be taken as seriously.
JIM: These are the kindest words I've ever heard in my life. No one has ever understood. Thank you. Maybe I should always fuck my critics.
PATRICIA: Y'know I don't even like rockers. They're sleazy. I made up my fuck list the other night out of 30 guys there were maybe three of them, y'know. I'm not a groupie.
JIM: ( hotter, grabs her ) Let's do it, here, now. with the sound of the crowd. Like Nuremberg, wild German fucking.
PATRICIA: You like that hunh? Beg!
JIM: I'm begging! I'm begging you!
PATRICIA: You wanna fuck me, Morrison, don't ever lie to me again. Ever!
JIM: About what!
PATRICIA: Your father. Why do you tell me bullshit like your father's dead?
JIM: ( pissed ) What's your problem with fathers! They're dead, both of them, I told If he's so dead, then who answered the phone when I called the house?
PATRICIA: If he's so dead, then who answered the phone when I called the house?
PATRICIA: ( knowing look ) You didn't really think you'd get away with that, Morrison. An Admiral in the United States Navy. Who's at the Gulf of Tonkin when Vietnam starts. Your Dad's a Deputy Chief of What'd he say? That was really stupid. Why didn't you just ask me.
JIM: What'd he say? That was really stupid. Why didn't you just ask me.
PATRICIA: Well naturally he wasn't too happy when I called. Your Mom wanted to talk but he shut her off.
JIM: You're a fuckin' cunt. You could ruin his career if.
PATRICIA: What, I'm a "fuckin' cunt" because I called the house? Like it's hard to trace your school records. University of Florida, Albuquerque, New Mexico, Arlington, Virginia, Washington, D.C. Brother, sister, it's seven miles long baby it's all in the "The End", it's so easy.
PATRICIA: Don't ever try to hide anything from me again. Okay? Go on. tell me. Did he make you cut your hair? Did he hit you, was he a bully? Did he love you? How much?
PATRICIA: And your mother?
JIM: ( pause ) I don't want to talk about it. Hate is a very underestimated emotion.
PATRICIA: It doesn't matter anymore does it. Listen to them. It's you they want now. Not the Doors, not your mother or your father's child. They want you Jim.
JIM: You're wrong. What they want I can't give. my death ripped to pieces do you feel their power?
PATRICIA: You have no choice, Jim. I see you up there like Icarus. I see you flying closer and closer to the sun. And your wings are melting.
JIM: I want to live, Patricia. I don't wanna die.
JIM: Patricia. Patricia.
COP: Whatcha doing there?
JIM: Uh. nuthin'
COP: ( approaching, suspicious ) Okay, outta there both of you. No one's allowed backstage. Let's go.
PATRICIA: You idiot, don't you know who.
JIM: Hey, I'm with the band man. It's cool. Take it easy.
COP: Let's go. NOW! You're both under Hey, eat it man!
JIM: ( pointing to his crotch, angry ) Hey, eat it man!
JIM: Mace! Shit!
PATRICIA: Help! They got Jim!!!
JIM: Why'd you blind me man? You blinded
SIDDONS: What the hell happened! Don't touch Jim. Get some water. Don't touch your eyes.
JIM: ( in pain )
COP: ( realizing ) Hey all he said was.
SIDDONS: He was WHAT! He's Jim Morrison for chrissake. Jim, Jim you okay let's get you under the water here. Don't touch, you'll be okay.
COP 1: I'm going to have to issue a warrant for his arrest.
SIDDONS: Are you NUTS! Why don't you leave him alone lady, he doesn't need more shit in his What do you know what Jim needs?
RAY: Why don't you leave him alone lady, he doesn't need more shit in his What do you know what Jim needs?
PATRICIA: What do you know what Jim needs?
DOORS SONG: .Hup two three four.
COMPANY HALT!: INT. NEW HAVEN STAGE - THAT NIGHT THE DOORS on stage, JIM - eyes masked, facing death at a mock execution, in full black leather armor.
DOORS SONG: Present arms!. The famous drum roll, tension building. Sudden sound of guitar. Jim crumples to the ground. Blood shooting from his The audience is enrapt. Jim suddenly jumps up, looses the blood curdling scream of an aroused demon and the band bangs into Willie Dixon's BACK DOOR MAN.
OH YEEEEAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!: AYYYYYYAAAAAMMMMAAA BACK DOOR MAN.
JIM: I wanna tell you 'bout something that happened just a few minutes ago right here in New Haven. This is New Haven isn't it? New Haven, Connecticut, United States of America?
HECKLER: HEY MORRISON, is the West really the best or are you just stoned on "Light My Fire". Sing "Light My Fire". Yeah. Give us Light My Fire!. We want Mick Jagger! Take your clothes off Jim. Show it to us! We want the Lizard King!
VOICE'S: ( annoying ) "Light My Fire". Sing "Light My Fire". Yeah. Give us Light My Fire!. ( giggles ) We want Mick Jagger! Take your clothes off Jim. Show it to us! We want the Lizard King!
JIM: ( finally ) Well I was with this girl backstage, y'know. We got to talking and we wanted some privacy, so we went into this shower stall. We weren't doin' anything y'know jes' standing there and talking.
JIM: .and then this little man came in there, this little man in a little blue suit and a little blue cap.
JIM: ( redneck voice ) And he said "Whatcha doin' there?" I said, "nuthin'" and he said, "Well you better get outta there or." "Or what" I asked him.
JIM: And he started pushing me and I pushed back and he didn't like that so he reached back there and got out his little can of mace. And sprayed it right in my eyes. And blinded me. Why? Cause I was alone in a room with a lady doing what he would like to be doing if he could ever get it up without a gun.
JIM: In the United States of America. Land of the free. Home of the Brave man in God We Trust right? TURN
JIM: Say your thing man!
LIEUTENANT: Young man you've gone too far. The show's over. You're under arrest.
JOHN: ( scared ) They're gonna beat the shit out of him man!
JIM: ( resisting )
JIM: GET YOUR HANDS OFF ME SLAVE!
JIM: YOU'RE SLAVES. YOU'RE ALL A BUNCH OF SLAVES. THIS ISN'T HAPPENING TO ME MAN, THIS IS HAPPENING TO YOU!!!
COP 1: ( coming in ) Hey whatcha got here? A boy or a ( coming closer to Jim ) What do you care. You're gonna fuck him anyway. Okay rock star, let's see the backdoor you keep bawling ( stretching his ass cheeks ) Where's the roach powder?
COP 2: ( coming closer to Jim ) What do you care. You're gonna fuck him anyway. Okay rock star, let's see the backdoor you keep bawling ( stretching his ass cheeks ) Where's the roach powder?
COP 1: Ain't he the prettiest long-haired boy y'ever saw?
COP 2: ( reaching for a can ) Turn around rock star.
COP 2: ( backing off ) Stand clear, who the hell knows what's living in there?
JIM: You finished? You sure you're finished? Haven't you forgotten something the consolation prize they gave ya for taking your cock and balls? The guns. Why don't you use em you withered dicks! You shit- eating red-neck chickenshit bastards, I hope this makes your worthless You better kill me cause I'm gonna come back and fuck everyone of your
JIM: ( on the floor, quiet ) You better kill me cause I'm gonna come back and fuck everyone of your
KIDS: LET JIM GO!!! MORRISON! MORRISON! WE WANT MORRISON! GET OUTTA HERE! GO HOME. GO ON NOW!
WANT MORRISON!: GET OUTTA HERE! GO HOME. GO ON NOW!
COPS: GET OUTTA HERE! GO HOME. GO ON NOW!
CROWD: MOR-RI-SON! MOR-RI-SON! MOR-RI-SON!
CROWD: JIM JIM JIM JIM JIM JIM. He could go all the way man! In five years he could be in the White House. Another JFK.
RAY: ( aside to Robbie ) He could go all the way man! In five years he could be in the White House. Another JFK.
FLASH!: FRONTAL SHOT, slated Police Dept New Haven Conn 23750 12-10-67. A sullen handsome portrait.
JIM: I drink so I can talk to assholes. This includes me. Let's just say I was testing the bounds of reality that's-all I was curious. I kinda always preferred to be hated. Like Erich Von Stroheim in the movies. the man you loved to hate. it's meant to be ironic, courage wants to laugh. Y'know it's essentially a stupid situation. I go out on a stage and I howl for people. In me they see what they want to see some say the Lizard King, whatever that means, or some black-clad leather demon whatever that means. but really I think of myself as a sensitive, intelligent human being but with the soul of a clown which always forces me to blow it at the most crucial moment. a fake hero. a joke the gods played on me. it's okay, I accept the joke. and smile. Death old friend, death and my cock, I can forgive my injuries in the name of wisdom, luxury, romance. Words got me the wound and will get me well. All join now in lament of my cock, a tongue of knowledge in the feathered night. Boys get crazy in the head and suffer. I sacrifice my cock on the alter of
MIKE: Hey Jim, how 'bout hitting a strip- joint? It's getting late and we can.
JIM: Nah, later.
JIM: Now listen to this I'll tell you about Texas Radio and the big beat soft driven slow and mad like some new language reaching your head with the cold sudden fury of a divine messenger let me tell you about heartache and the loss of God wandering, wandering in hopeless night out here on the perimeter there are no stars out here we is stoned, immaculate. but I tell you this: No eternal reward will forgive us now for wasting the dawn.
DOORS SONG: Blood in the streets in the town of New Haven Blood stains the roofs and palm trees of Venice Blood in my love in the terrible summer The bloody red sun of phantastic L.A. Over the SONG, a MONTAGE of the 60's passing to its darker DOCUMENTARY IMAGES MARTIN LUTHER KING assassinated, BOBBY KENNEDY gunned down, PEGGY FLEMMING ice skating at the Olympics; A QUAKER burns himself to death protesting the war in Vietnam; B-52 bombs dropped on CAMBODIA; KENT STATE erupts; CHARLES MANSON is INT. BARNEY'S BEANERY - LOS ANGELES - MONDAY JIM drinking in Barney's Bar.
DOCUMENTARY IMAGES: MARTIN LUTHER KING assassinated, BOBBY KENNEDY gunned down, PEGGY FLEMMING ice skating at the Olympics; A QUAKER burns himself to death protesting the war in Vietnam; B-52 bombs dropped on CAMBODIA; KENT STATE erupts; CHARLES MANSON is INT. BARNEY'S BEANERY - LOS ANGELES - MONDAY JIM drinking in Barney's Bar.
NEWS FLASHES: LYNDON JOHNSON's dog face on TV withdrawing: NIXON waving as he wins '68; Rowen and Martin's LAUGH IN; COLUMBIA STUDENTS taking over; 3rd HEADLINE: "MORRISON BUSTED IN VEGAS". MARTIN LUTHER KING going down again; NIXON winning; massive ANTI- WAR PROTESTS in Washington; floating space ships in "2001"; B-52s sailing over Vietnam 4th HEADLINE: "DOORS PROVOKE CHICAGO RIOTS" again and again, faster, faster.
DOORS SONG: Blood is the rose of mysterious union! There's blood in the streets & it's up to my knees She came Blood in the streets of Chicago She came Blood on the rise and it's following me Just about the break of day ( etc ) The river runs red down the legs of the city She came The women are crying red rivers of weeping The MONTAGE collides into an ECU on JIM drinking as if to silence the images, the sounds we hear and see on his face. Spirits crying for release. In alcoholic solace. He passes out, head hitting the bar. Jim's English friend, MIKE, walks in, throwing a harsh shaft of LA morning light across the dark bar and JIM's face, bleary eyed, passed out on the counter. He has a drinking paunch. With him are TOM BAKER, "TOM", the actor from the Warhol scene in New York and a huge biker type drinker named DOG, one of Jim's roadmen, a beard fanning his chest, tattoos everywhere. In the front of these three monoliths are about twenty beer bottles, numerous Jack Daniels bottles emptied and a lesbian BARTENDRESS pouring up a breakfast shot of bloody Marys. Mike hands Dog a breakfast in a brown paper Delores pouring the bloody mary. As Mike scoffs at Jim passed
MIKE: Morning. Pour me breakfast Delores. Whatsa matter with Jimbo? Can't handle it huh
MIKE: Whatsa matter with Jimbo? Can't handle it huh
TOM: Pussy whipped, man.
DOG: Hey Jim, come on babe, eat this. . . one last place to go. Ray's getting it on.
JIM: ( sparkling ) Alive she cried! Right Dog, another cubic centimeter of chance ( slaps Dog, notices the eggs, queasy ) Ugh, I can't eat this stuff, it'll really make me sick. Gimme a Dos Equis will ya Delores? And a Ramos gin fizz with it.
TOM: Fuck man did you fade or what, we were on a "death run" up to the 9000 building after the gig, you bet me a grand you'd walk the ledge.
JIM: ( instantly ) Let's go. Right now!
TOM: Then mumbling about "gotta go home, sanctuary," pussy whipped. We were gonna film it! A thousand bucks! Give him a double.
JIM: A triple, Tom, shem and shaun.
TOM: .imagine me and Morrison in a fuckin movie together, can you imagine two powerful two-fisted Irish fucking drinking guys in a movie, in a documentary movie!!
MIKE: I'll direct the shit out of it, man. Dennis Hopper can do it, I can do .all of us direct it! In black and white. Call it "Zero." A real road movie! Two of these you feel a lot better.
JIM: ( drinking the fizz down ) .all of us direct it! In black and white. Call it "Zero." A real road movie! Two of these ( points to drink ) you feel a lot better.
DOG: Whatcha doing! Oh fuck.
DELORES: Fuck you Morrison. You're outta here you fuckhead, get out!
DOG: ( lifting Jim out of there ) Come on Jimbo, one more place to go. Ray's getting married man, this morning, remember! You're the best Fuck Ray fuckin Pollock all he cares about's money. Fuckin sell out. You sold out too man. The last album's shit, and lemme tell ya something, people know it.
TOM: Fuck Ray fuckin Pollock all he cares about's money. Fuckin sell out. You sold out too man. The last album's shit, and lemme tell ya something, people know it.
MIKE: ( defending Jim ) Come on Baker, lighten up.
JIM: That's all right. I like it
DOG: ( to Jim ) Come on man, toe the line. Boots to the pavement. Let's walk.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
JIM: ( to no one in particular ) I LOVE L.A. the best neon. City of Night! City of Light. why are you going to work? You're not slaves, you're free, cars, you're free.
TOM: Awright shaddup Morrison, just cause you don't gotta work. Give me some of your money, asshole, and I'll yell anything you fucking What was that speckled motherfucker you just took? Give me some!
MIKE: ( coming up ) What was that speckled motherfucker you just took? Give me some!
JIM: ( yielding, to Tom ) You gotta fail to succeed Tom, gotta surrender to the waiting tides.
HIPPIE PRIEST: ( ad lib ) Awright, the vibrations are right now, I feel peace and love here today, I feel a grooviness coming on, do you Ray Manzarek take your lady love. ( etc. ) fill the white wings of death, scatter your ashes
DOORS SONG: Summer's almost gone Where will we be When the summer's gone?
RAY: ( aside ) Where the fuck you been man?
JIM: Man, I been here all the time. over there watching. I'm really happy for you Ray you found life.
PAM: Jim, I need some safflower oil. Do you think you can find me a bottle?
JIM: Safflower oil, sure.
PAM: And get some Gravy Train for Sage.
JIM: ( obediently ) I'll meet you up front.
PAM: I'll meet you up front.
PAM: Jim you got any cash?
DOORS SONG: Morning found us clearly unaware Noon burned gold into our hair At night we swam the laughing sea When summer's gone where will we be
PAM: It's only another $95,000 but I could get the best clothes. From India, Morocco Jim, clothes you can't find anywhere, we could get the richest people to come, Miles Davis, Cher, the Stones, it's gonna be the best boutique on La Cienega Jim. why are we walking, how come we don't have a car?
JIM: .cause you lost it. It's fun to walk, isn't it.
PAM: .that was months ago. We got another Which car?
JIM: Which car?
PAM: The red one with the black interior. Remember it was a shift and I didn't like it. What happened to it?
JIM: Oh yeah. I wrecked it.
PAM: Oh Jim! Damn! Where's the Gravy Train? Whatsamatter? What are you on? You promised you wouldn't drink today.
JIM: No Ma I ain't drinking.
PAM: You're not gonna drink any more are you Jim.
JIM: No Ma I ain't.
PAM: And you're gonna change those stinky leathers you been wearing for three I don't know 'bout that.
JIM: I don't know 'bout that.
PAM: What the hell are you on?
JIM: Uh just some low grade acid. It's not heavy. Pam, read my mind.
PAM: Jesus Jim! Goddamit! You PROMISED. I made the duck! People are coming! Ray and Dorothy think we're flaky enough and I. you said you'd wait till after, you're going to peak before me.
JIM: Hey it's okay, it's okay. come on, we'll trip and then eat our feast.
PAM: Yeah sure.
JIM: Come on baby, y'know it's a good thing for Ray and Dorothy I think women are such noble creatures they carry on your name with dignity after you die.
PAM: What are you saying? You wanna marry me Jim?
JIM: ( elusively ) I think women basically have a comic approach to life I mean how can they not when they look up in the dark and see a dangling penis, seeking entry. It looks like a face y'know little beard "Hi mom" ( Pam giggling now ) I wanna get inside you. Look around. ( humming ) "Do the funky chicken, do dah, dah, funky chicken do da da "love my girl"
JIM: Let's go wild child, let's get out there Romeo and Juliet, Marilyn Monroe and Vincent Van Gogh, Jim and Pam, rock and roll .all the poetry has wolves in it, but one Pam the most beautiful one of all dances in a ring of fire and throws off the challenge with a shrug
PAM: ( romantic ) I like it when you sing to me
JIM: 'cause I'm the poet and you're my
PAM: What am I going to do about these papers! Jim, Jim you really need someone to organize this stuff. Your handwriting's just like a little
PAM: My God look at this. I wonder if William Blake was ever this
DOROTHY: Oh the duck!
JIM: ( coming over ) Get some drinks, man. Over there ( getting Pam's attention ) I'm gonna be your editor now, seriously I'm going to organize all your stuff. I'm gonna take out all the fuck words.
PAM: I'm gonna be your editor now, seriously I'm going to organize all your stuff. I'm gonna take out all the fuck words.
DOORS SONG: You're lost little girl You're lost little girl You're lost, tell me Who are you? PEOPLE are introducing themselves, coming in from all over, like in a shoebox. Hippies. Doors people. now TOM BAKER with MIKE and DOG. Now an aggressive Chuck Berry type BLACK SINGER with John's GIRLFRIEND. Then a TIMOTHY LEARY look- alike appears. CHATTER blending everywhere as we build to a vast confusion at Jim and Pam's party.
JIM: Let's go wild child, let's get out there Romeo and Juliet, Marilyn Monroe and Vincent Van Gogh, Jim and Pam, rock and roll "Clothed in sunlight Restless in wanting Dying of fever Changed shapes of an empire Vast promissory notes of joy How it has changed you How slowly estranged you Solely arranged you Beg you for mercy"
JIM: ( cupping her chin ) Pam. Honey, you're trying too hard.
PAM: I'm not I'm not.
JIM: ( soft, reassuring ) Yes you are.
PAM: There's some great poetry here Jim, some wonderful ideas.
JIM: Yeah but nobody wants to read poetry anymore, nobody cares, it's not like important y'know. Just put it away. Not right now.
PAM: ( lost ) But what am I supposed to do? How do I fit in? Who am I supposed to be around all these people? Darling Pamela, I brought you a little ( ignoring it ) You're my girl, that's who.
COUNT: Darling Pamela, I brought you a little You're my girl, that's who.
JIM: ( ignoring it ) You're my girl, that's who.
PAMELA: ( laughs insanely ) I'm not your girl, don't give me that shit. I know you fuck everything that touches you.
ANNE: Hi Jim.
JIM: ( to Pamela ) All right so I do. I live my life the way I want. I don't want anyone expecting anything from me including you! You don't like it then get the fuck out! ( to Anne ) Oh hi Anne. You know Pam? She's a little pissed off right now but.
RAY: Okay Jim let's eat that duck.
DOROTHY: ( calming Pamela ) Come on Pam, let's put out the ( stunned, pushing thru to Anne ) Anne O'Riordan. Are you Anne You must be Pamela
PAMELA: ( stunned, pushing thru to Anne ) Anne O'Riordan. Are you Anne You must be Pamela
ANNE: You must be Pamela
PAMELA: ( eyeing her up and down through her tears ) You actually put your dick in this woman Jim?
JIM: Well I. sometimes yeah
PAMELA: ( condescending to Anne ) I understand. I really do but don't ever think that Jim's gonna love you or take care of you. You're one of a hundred you know
JIM: Hey don't you know when to stop!
PAM: Look who's talking
ANNE: I'd like to think Jim can make up his own mind who he loves and who he Don't kid yourself sweetheart, Jim's crazy but he's not that crazy. He loves me.
PAMELA: Don't kid yourself sweetheart, Jim's crazy but he's not that crazy. He loves me.
ROBBIE: Jesus, it's not gonna be one of these dinners is it Jim? How 'bout some Love it!! Far out.
BAKER: Love it!! Far out.
DOROTHY: Yes, let's go into the kitchen. The duck's ready. Jim, you should meet Chuck Vincent. He came specially to meet you.
GIRLFRIEND: ( anxious ) Jim, you should meet Chuck Vincent. He came specially to meet you.
JIM: ( deeply surprised ) Oh yeah Chuck. You're my idol man. since I was 12. The best man. So you the white boy makin' all that I still can't hold a candle to you.
CHUCK VINCENT: So you the white boy makin' all that I still can't hold a candle to you.
JIM: I still can't hold a candle to you.
CHUCK VINCENT: Hey everybody Chuck Vincent's here. Yo sho can't boy, I ain't heard much of yor stuff. What I done heard don't show me much.
ROBBIE: ( insulted ) So fuck you man.
JIM: ( laughs ) Chuck Vincent man! No. He's right. Chuck Vincent's here, everybody, Chuck Vincent.
CHUCK: Ain't no honkey ever gonna sing the blues, you ain't been there. Where dat turkey at?
PAM: I just have one thing to say to you
JIM MORRISON!!: It's not Thanksgiving honey.
JIM: It's not Thanksgiving honey.
PAM: ( freaking out now )
COUNT: Pamela, bella, please behave hunh. Va fanculo Jimmy, what the hell did you give her
PAM: GET OUT!!!
GET OUT!!!: PATRICIA leaving now, covered with turkey sauce.
PATRICIA: See you later.
JIM: ( to the Count ) She's working it out, man, it's okay ( going to console her ) Pamela, Pamela. come on baby, it's all right, shhh.
PAM: BLOOOOOOODDDDDDD! DEEATHHHH! STOP THE BLEEDING JESUS. I'M DYING HELP PUSH! PUSH! IT'S A BOY!
MEEEEEE!: PUSH! PUSH! IT'S A BOY!
JIM: PUSH! PUSH! IT'S A BOY!
PAM: RAAAAZOOOORS!!! RAAAAZZZZZORS AND DUCKKKS! THIS SHAMAN SHIT IS BULLSHIT! FUCK YOU AND YOUR DARK RIDE!!
JIM: Oh murder? MURDER??? YOU WANNA DO
SOME MURDER: JIM! COME ON. GET A HOLD OF YOURSELF! MURDER!!! YEAH!. Where's my camera!
RAY: JIM! COME ON. GET A HOLD OF YOURSELF! MURDER!!! YEAH!. Where's my camera!
JIM: YOU WANNA KNOW WHAT MURDER IS. YOU WANNA FEEL DEATH. HERE!
PAM: YOU YOU YOU!!!! YOU KILLED MY DUCK! YOU KILLED MY DUCK!!
JIM: I'M STILL KILLING YOUR DUCK!!! FUCK!!! MURDER DEATH!!! THE DUCK IS DEAD. JIM!! WILL YOU STOP THIS SHIT WILL YOU STOP!! WILL YOU GET SANE!!
RAY: JIM!! WILL YOU STOP THIS SHIT WILL YOU STOP!! WILL YOU GET SANE!!
JIM: ( explodes out of his grasp )
EVER!!: A silence. Robbie. John. their women. they start Ray about to lose his temper with Tom, checks it.
CHUCK VINCENT: ( to John's girlfriend ) This party's gettin' low rent. Let's go babe.
DOG: Hey, fuck him, let's eat this thing. What the hell's happened to us Jim? What the hell is happening to us. There's some great poetry.
PAM: What the hell's happened to us Jim? What the hell is happening to us. There's some great poetry.
DOORS SONG: You're lost little girl ( 2 ) You're lost, tell me Who are you?
VOICE: ( loudspeaker ) Ladies and Gentlemen, from Los Angeles California The DOORS!
SIDDONS: ( in crush ) Jim! Your Mom's here with your brother. What do you want me to do with 'em?
JIM: ( shakes his head )
HIDE ME!!!: HARD CUT TO:
SIDDONS: Vice Squad says one more "fuck or shit" they're gonna close us down Stick my dick in their ear!
MIKE: Stick my dick in their ear!
JIM: ( ironic ) Oh hi. I didn't realize you were ( stoned )
PAM: ( stoned )
COUNT: Scusi Jimmy, I hope you're cool about Don't forget your smack on the way
JIM: ( very cool ) Don't forget your smack on the way
JIM: ( yelling ) The mansion is warm at the top of the hill Rich are the rooms and the comforts Red are the arms of luxuriant chairs You won't know a thing till you get
JIM: I told you about that shit. Or are we talking about death choices here?
PAM: I'm just doing my thing, just like you said, it's my thing, why can't I have a thing. Ow! You're hurting me!
JIM: ( rising anger ) Get up. Hurt? You want to know HURT? Let me introduce you to my good friend
PAM: ( screaming )
JIM: ( crazed ) Ah sanctuary!. a soft place to ( inside ) .from you, you pig!
PAM: ( inside ) .from you, you pig!
JIM: I'll give you a place to hide forever!
PAM: He puts a candle to the drenched door/floor.
JIM!: He puts a candle to the drenched door/floor.
JIM: This is the best part of the trip,
HIGH PRIESTESS: ( dimly heard ) .we worship the ancient forces of Nature, the Triple Goddess, the Great Mother and the Lord, the Horned One. when the vow is taken
HIGH PRIESTESS: .it is a blending of souls on a karmi and cosmic plane that affects your future incarnations on this planet. Death does not part only lack of love and the vow is forever in the Goddess' sight.
JIM: ( indifferent, to himself ) I am the Lizard King I can do anything
JUDY: Man wow watsa matter Jim? It was beautiful. wasn't it? Kim? Wasn't it great?
KIM: ( 2nd girl, studying murder magazine ) It was all right
JIM: ( gently ) Hey it's no big deal. I like to cry when I come. It's close to death. maybe you'd better go home now before your mama gets home.
JUDY: She is home Jim
JIM: It's a secret.
JUDY: It's a secret.
JIM: ( innocently ) You know you've always been good to me in bed Judy. And it was nice of you to bring your friend. I want to keep seeing both of you but it can't be all the time y'know. It would be a night every few weeks or so. That's just the way I am, I'm not dependable. I can't be a boyfriend. Would you do that? I mean could you handle it? That way? I don't want you to get ( putting on a tacky dress ) I already been hurt enuf' by you Jim, I don't have much to lose do I?
JUDY: ( putting on a tacky dress ) I already been hurt enuf' by you Jim, I don't have much to lose do I?
JIM: .do you love me?
JUDY: .Well, just think about it awhile. Call me when you get your new Hey that's a really nice outfit you're wearing, you really have good taste in clothes. How long have you two been friends?
JIM: .Well, just think about it awhile. Call me when you get your new Hey that's a really nice outfit you're wearing, you really have good taste in clothes. How long have you two been friends?
JIM: ( grins )
JIM: Come back later! Who is it!
VOICE: ( slurred ) It's a secret.
JIM: ( recognizes it ) Whyn't you come back later. I don't have any clothes on.
PAM: Jim, I gotta talk! Let me in please. I gotta talk.
JIM: Now Pam sweetheart, I'm busy.
PAM: Jim, I know there's someone in there, I can't believe you're doing this again. You're disgusting.
JIM: Well you see Pam there's this crazy girl in here, she's just lying on the bed with her legs open and I don't know what to do.
PAM: FUCK YOU!!! I want to see her.
JIM: ( off ) It's your cousin Lizzie, you don't want to see her. Go home.
PAM: We're all sisters, let me see her. Jim,. I got this wonderful leg of lamb in the oven for supper. and the house is immaculate. Sage is waiting. He wants you to play with him. are you coming.
JIM: Jim goddamit answer me!!
PAM: Jim goddamit answer me!!
DOORS SONG: C'mon, c'mon, c'mon c'mon now Touch me babe Can't you see that I am not afraid
JIM: What was that promise you made Why don't you tell me what she said What was that promise that she made I'm gonna love you Till the heaven stops the rain I'm gonna love you Till the stars fall from the sky For you and I. .fuckin' neanderthal primadonna is too drunk to see. Cut it. that was beautiful sweetheat, we had a technical problem, we'll take it again from the top babe whenever you're ready.
PAUL: ( to Botnick the engineer ) .fuckin' neanderthal primadonna is too drunk to see. ( cuts the music, to Jim ) Cut it. that was beautiful sweetheat, we had a technical problem, we'll take it again from the top babe whenever you're ready.
DENSMORE: What's his fucking problem?
JIM: ( equally false ) Paul babe.
PAUL: Right here baby.
JIM: Why don't you suck a fart out of my asshole you slave driving facist
PAUL: ( exasperated ) I hear the booze, I hear the smokes Jim, I don't hear the voice and babe I didn't hear the song!
JIM: So what are we going to tonight Paul! 67 takes! It's stale!
RAY: ( coming in with JOHN ) Alright, let's try something else.
JIM: I wanna sing blues. This stuffs getting too self-conscious.
ROBBIE: ( offended ) Cause it's my song man?
JIM: ( simultaneous, incomprehensible ) Let's sing "Rock is Dead"! You're all a buncha slaves. "Oh come all ye faithful."
PAUL: ( hot ) Shut up Jim! I don't understand! I don't. What are ya doing! I love you like a brother, I do, but why are you fucking this up. It's a perfect radio song for chrissake! No one wants to hear the blues anymore! Think like a singer, you're the only baritone crooner we got left. Sinatra, Elvis, Crosby, you're as good as they are, but WHY ARE YOU
JIM: Catchy, you sold it to a commercial?
JIM: For that? How much did you get for Now, Jim.
RAY: Now, Jim.
JIM: HOW MUCH? It was $50,000. You weren't talking to us that week and we figgered you.
HOW MUCH?: It was $50,000. You weren't talking to us that week and we figgered you.
SIDDONS: It was $50,000. You weren't talking to us that week and we figgered you.
JIM: You figured? What the fuck is this It's not like a big deal Jim, the song's already been commercialized, the money was great. Robbie wrote the lyrics and he didn't mind, neither did I, neither did John. we gotta get to TV.
RAY: It's not like a big deal Jim, the song's already been commercialized, the money was great. Robbie wrote the lyrics and he didn't mind, neither did I, neither did John. we gotta get to TV.
JIM: What?. are you saying? Are we the Doors? One for all and all for one? Do you know what you're saying to those millions of kids! "Just kidding, not real". That's what you're saying.
JOHN: Oh come on man, you think just cause you're the lead man in the band you can run the whole show.
JIM: ( building intensity ) You think I was kidding Ray? ( turning to John ) Hey John, those are interesting shoes, you like those shoes?
JOHN: ( aggressive ) Yeah I do.
JIM: Good. Then do you want 50 of those Then what do you need more money
JOHN: Then what do you need more money
JIM: Then what do you need more money
JIM: I'm dying Ray. I wasn't kidding. Maybe you were. But I'll tell you something, it's not about these desires you have man, or money, or these records, it's about breaking through wasn't it? You just lost something man. We all lost something boys. We lost I don't think so Jim. There's a bigger picture here.
RAY: I don't think so Jim. There's a bigger picture here.
JIM: There sure is. In your fucking face!
JIM: ( quietly ) Just kidding. ( turning to Pam ) Hi Pam. Just watchin' some TV.
PAM: ( pathetic ) I wanted you to find us Jim. It meant I know. I know.
JIM: I know. I know.
PAM: You don't have to torture me Jim. Let me make it up to you, please.
JIM: It's alright honey, it's gonna be alright. You're my girl and that's the way it's always gonna stay.
PAM: ( snuggles him, zoned ) ( ironic, to the others ) So, let's keep that money machine rolling. Come on guys.
JIM: ( ironic, to the others ) So, let's keep that money machine rolling. Come on guys.
PAUL: Right on Jimbo.
JIM: ( reciting ) When I was back there in seminary There was a person there Who put forth the proposition That you can petition the Lord with Petition the Lord with prayer Petition the Lord with prayer
PAUL: Where the hell did she go?
PAM: ( sotto voice ) .sing to me, Jim, sing to me.
JIM SONG: ( fiercely ) Calling on the dogs ( 5 ) When all else fails You can whip the horses' eyes And make them sleep And cry.
PAM: I love you.
JIM: ( reciting ) Why does my mind circle around you? Why do planets wonder what it would be like to be you? All your soft wild promises were words, birds, Endlessly in flight Being drunk is the best disguise As the body is ravaged The spirit grows stronger
ENGINEER: Let's send out for some pizza Jim.
JIM: Nah, how 'bout some tacos when we're The world on fire Taxi from Africa The grand hotel he was drunk a big party last night back, going back in all directions sleeping these insane hours I'll never wake up in a good mood again I'm sick of these stinky boots Do you know we are being led to slaughters by placid admirals? And that fat slow generals are getting obscene on young blood? Do you know we are ruled by TV?
JIM: Oh great Creator of Being Grant us one more hour to perform our art and perfect our lives The moths and atheists are doubly divine in dying We live, we die, and death not ends Journey we more into the nightmare We're reaching for death on the end of a candle We're trying for something that's already found us.
DENSMORE: He ain't gonna show! I know it man. We should fuckin' go on without him.
RAY: Bill's with him. They're an hour away, he'll get him here.
SIDDONS: Goddamit Jim! We missed one already, we gotta get this one man!
JIM: Four more all around and up and down!
MIKE: Four more all around and up and down!
SIDDONS: ( urgent )
JIM: Don't be so melodramatic Bill, it's not fun anymore.
DOG: I can't fly sober.
SIDDONS: Jim, you don't show for this one, we're dead, the whole group no more bookings.
JIM: I care.
PAUL: Come on Jim, we'll get fuckin' laid in Miami.
SIDDONS: We need the work Jim! They're making us post a $10,000 bond just to show up we're the only group in rock-n- roll with a fuck clause! Get him on the fuckin' plane. That's what I pay you for.
DOG: ( to Bill ) You're an awful little guy to be talking like that.
JIM: ( muttering ) Chump change, we're working for chump Look at you, you're a pathetic fuckin' slob and so are all your friends!
SIDDONS: Look at you, you're a pathetic fuckin' slob and so are all your friends!
JIM: I got an idea Bill, you're fired.
JOHN: Listen to 'em! They're not coming for the music anymore. They're coming to see a fuckin' freak show!
RAY: You think it's easy for him. He moves left he's got vice squad, on the right narcs and the audience just waiting for him to get busted.
JOHN: He wanted it! Not us. I just don't fuckin' get the point anymore. I never did I guess. Y'ask me he's just become a drunken fuckin' asshole that's what. And he's gonna take us down with him.
RAY: Compassion was never your forte man.
JOHN: Don't lecture me Mr. Philosopher, you never felt a fuckin thing in your life. I loved that man. I loved what he was.
ROBBIE: It ain't the old Jim that's for sure. I think he's living for everybody else man and somewhere along the way he's lost his own self.
RAY: ( almost to himself ) The wine man, the ancient wine. The ancient wine.
ROBBIE: Something he once told us. About Dionysos. When the madness took
RAY: Something he once told us. About Dionysos. When the madness took
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
STEWARDESS: My name is Rita Hager and if.
JIM: If your name is Rita, then yor ol man must be ol man Rita!!
STEWARDESS: Excuse me sir, my father is not my old man.
STEWARDESS: In the event of a decrease of pressure, pull the oxygen mask to Ma ol lady had one of those but she calls it a diaphragm when I'm eating her out!
TOM: Ma ol lady had one of those but she calls it a diaphragm when I'm eating her out!
DOG: Nah, it's a douche bag on a dixie I'm sorry sir, but you're embarrassing Great tits.
STEWARDESS: I'm sorry sir, but you're embarrassing Great tits.
MIKE: Great tits.
SIDDONS: Come on guys, cool it!
JIM: ( teasing to Rothchild in the row behind him ) C'mon Paul, you can get us some heroin ( suddenly serious ) No I can't and I won't.
PAUL: ( suddenly serious ) No I can't and I won't.
JIM: Why not?
PAUL: Cause I don't want to participate in anything that would accomplish your Oh and what is my goal Paul? Death?
JIM: ( wry ) Oh and what is my goal Paul? Death?
PAUL: "Death old friend".
JIM: ( laughing ) Wrong. I just want the pure beauty of absolute zero and sing the blues man do nuthin, go nowhere, just With that waistline Jimbo you got no ( laughs, goodnatured ) What's wrong with being a large mammal, a big beast like a tank. I feel great!
TOM: With that waistline Jimbo you got no What's wrong with being a large mammal, a big beast like a tank. I feel great!
JIM: ( laughs, goodnatured ) What's wrong with being a large mammal, a big beast like a tank. I feel great!
DOG: Yeah. What's wrong with being fat.
TOM: You mean "Crawling King Flab"? Rock is cock babe and your rock is dyin'.
JIM: Rock is death! There is no longer belief. Hey, I'll write poetry and direct movies.
TOM: And what are you offering? Sex? You can't get it up. Salvation? You can't even save yourself. Come on Jim, you're not gonna be remembered.
JIM: What do you need?
STEWARDESS: What do you need?
JIM: Some love.
MIKE: They'll still be talking about Jim when you're a walk on Baker. I'll make you a deal. When you do something, I'll criticize it.
TOM: I think you both should take your heads out of the toilet bowl. After "Soft Parade" You need an album You should take it outta your ass.
MIKE: You should take it outta your ass.
JIM: The first two novels come along they love you, next few they slam but if you stay around long enough, one day they say, "hey he's part of the national psyche".
STEWARDESS: What are you drinking?
MIKE: ( lifts her skirt )
STEWARDESS: ( to Siddons ) I'm going to have to call the captain if you can't control these people. I guarantee that.
TOM: ( a cruel sarcasm Jim seems to enjoy ) .if you live long enough, don't kid yourself Jimbo you're all alone out there, Jimbo, cept for me, cause you're too wacked out man, they're scared, you're too fuckin ( feigning innocence ) I wasn't mad, Tom. I was only interested in freedom.
JIM: ( feigning innocence ) I wasn't mad, Tom. I was only interested in freedom.
TOM: ( the devil ) Bullshit! You're bored, you're not free. You tested all the limits, fame, fucking, money, whatcha gonna do now Jimbo! When the music's over, when you're too fat and ugly to get on a stage, whatcha gonna do for act three puke on Heaven's Listen you two bit fuckin actor, you underestimate the audience. You think they all want a better job, a house, two cars, money, that's what you think but you know what they really want, Tom, in their lives, what they really want
JIM: Listen you two bit fuckin actor, you underestimate the audience. You think they all want a better job, a house, two cars, money, that's what you think but you know what they really want, Tom, in their lives, what they really want
TOM: Tell me.
JIM: ( a whisper ) .something sacred, that's what they want, something sacred. Fuck you ignorant devil's asshole No you. Something sacred. My cock is sacred. Suck on that!
JIM: Fuck you ignorant devil's asshole No you. Something sacred. My cock is sacred. Suck on that!
TOM: No you. Something sacred. My cock is sacred. Suck on that!
JIM: I don't eat shrimp.
DOG: The STEWARDESS coming up with the CAPTAIN.
CAPTAIN: ALL RIGHT!! If you young men don't change your attitude right now, when we get to Miami you're going to be Yes, sir.
JIM: Yes, sir.
TOM: ( saluting ) YESSIR you asshole.
CAPTAIN: As captain of this ship I'm placing all four of you under arrest. The FBI will.
MIKE: For what! What'd we do!
TOM: Read me my rights, motherfuckers. motherfuckin bulls!
HIPPIE: Look at this thing! Look at this beautiful little living thing!! How can you eat it!! How can you eat its
HIPPIE: LOVE ANIMALS, DON'T EAT THEM!!!! ( Boos!! )
SIDDONS: ( screaming at promoter ) What the FUCK happened to the SEATS!! ( grabs him ) What's the FUCKING IDEA man! THERE'S
NO SEATS!: I took 'em out! What's wrong with that! We stuffed an extra five thou in there. Where the fuck you been!
PROMOTER: I took 'em out! What's wrong with that! We stuffed an extra five thou in there. Where the fuck you been!
SIDDONS: That wasn't THE FUCKING IDEA MAN!! We're gonna sue you!. We're pulling the plug.
PROMOTER: So sue me! You're playing or you ain't leaving here with your equipment We're not playing.
SIDDONS: ( to Ray ) We're not playing.
JOHN: I'm not going out there man!
RAY: JOHN, C'MON!! Look at him! I'm not going out there 'till I get some sorta guarantee he's gonna stay in line. I've had it with this shit.
JOHN, C'MON!!: Look at him! I'm not going out there 'till I get some sorta guarantee he's gonna stay in line. I've had it with this shit.
JOHN: Look at him! I'm not going out there 'till I get some sorta guarantee he's gonna stay in line. I've had it with this shit.
JIM: Whatsa matter, scared Johnny boy?
JOHN: ( going physically for Jim )
RAY: JOHN!! STOP IT!! COME ON!!
JOHN: You're pushing death Morrison. Everybody thinks we're drug addicts cause of you Morrison.
JIM: We the Beatles yet?
JOHN: ( held by Ray ) We took drugs to EXPAND MINDS ASSHOLE, not ESCAPE. I'M NOT GOING OUT THERE
JIM: Hey John y'ever eaten human flesh? When we get to New York, I know this Come on man.
RAY: ( taking John aside ) Come on man.
JOHN: I'm not going out there!
RAY: We'll talk tomorrow, we'll settle it. Just do it tonight man and.
JIM: .just a touch Robbie, it's the funkiest stuff, you'll play like an orgasm tonight.
ROBBIE: No man come on, I don't want any.
JIM: .just a little lick, come on trust me. for old times, the four of us, let's get together one more time,. the Doors man. Please. For me.
ROBBIE: You said you love pain man, but you run from it every chance you get.
CROWD: ( insane )
JIM: ARE YOU READY!!!!
TEENAGER: Then splits at a full run thru the crowd chased by the perplexed Cops. Everybody surging back towards the stage as JIM looses one of his primal SCREAMS.
JIM: YAAAAAOOOOOOOOOOWWWWWW. Love my Five to one One in five No one here gets out alive You gets your baby I'll get mine Gonna make it, baby If we try
JIM: The crazy VEGETERIAN HIPPIE runs out on stage to give Jim the white lamb to make this political point. Jim holds the lamb in his arms. It's purring, gentle. DOG chases the HIPPIE off as he gives the microphone back to Jim and takes the lamb from him. he staggers over to ROBBIE and goes down to his knees, pretending to give him head on his frantic stoned guitar solo.
YAAAAAAOOOOOOWWWWWWW!!!: The crazy VEGETERIAN HIPPIE runs out on stage to give Jim the white lamb to make this political point. Jim holds the lamb in his arms. It's purring, gentle. DOG chases the HIPPIE off as he gives the microphone back to Jim and takes the lamb from him. he staggers over to ROBBIE and goes down to his knees, pretending to give him head on his frantic stoned guitar solo.
MOB: .one more time Get together one more time Get together one more time
JIM: YOU'RE ALL A BUNCHA FUCKIN SLAVES!!!
JIM: Lettin people tell you what you're gonna do! Lettin people push you around! How long you think it's gonna last! How long you gonna let them push you around!!
VOICES: ( ignoring Jim ) "Light My Fire"! Play "Light My Fire"!! Come on Jim. ( some boos sprinkled in ) Take your clothes off man! Get wild! Fuck me baby. Fuck me girl, suck my cock honey around the world! Mexican whore suck my prick! Keeper of the royal sperm man! CELEBRATE THE LIZARD
JIM: C'MON GET IT ALL OUT! ALL THE LITTLE HATREDS, Everything inside you.
CROWD: FUCK YOU! THAT'S THE ONE LITTLE WORD I WANTED TO HEAR! THAT'S THE VERY LITTLE WORD! THE WHOLE WORLD HATES ME! THE WHOLE FUCKING WORLD HATES ME!
FUCK YOU!: THAT'S THE ONE LITTLE WORD I WANTED TO HEAR! THAT'S THE VERY LITTLE WORD! THE WHOLE WORLD HATES ME! THE WHOLE FUCKING WORLD HATES ME!
JIM: THAT'S THE ONE LITTLE WORD I WANTED TO HEAR! THAT'S THE VERY LITTLE WORD! THE WHOLE WORLD HATES ME! THE WHOLE FUCKING WORLD HATES ME!
VOICE: ( girl )
JIM: Maybe you love it, maybe you love gettin your faces pressed into the shit of the world! You'd all eat shit wouldn't ya!! Adolph Hitler is
JIM: WHAT ARE YA GONNA DO ABOUT IT! WHAT ARE YA GONNA DO ABOUT IT! WHAT ARE YA GONNA DO ABOUT IT!
ME BABE.": JIM & DOORS ( going with it ) ( cuts the music )
VOICES: Yeah, STOP THE WAR MAN, PEACEEE.
JIM: NO I'm not talkin' 'bout NO REVOLUTION. I'm not talkin 'bout no DEMONSTRATION. I'm talking 'bout HAVING SOME FUN. I'm talkin' 'bout DANCIN. I'm talkin 'bout LOVE. I'm talkin' 'bout some LOVE. LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE. LOVE!!!! Grab your friend and LOVE him. Come oooooaaaannnnn.
VOICES: ( cheers, giggles ) "Light My Fire"! Come on Jim play "Light My Fire"!
JIM: Ain't nobody gonna love my ass? Come on. I need ya. There's so many of ya out there and nobody's gonna love me! C'mon what'cha come here for anyway? You didn't come here for music. You didn't come here to see a good band. You came here for THIS didn't ya.
JIM: I'm lonely out here Ya wanna SEE IT. COME ON SWEETHEART. I need it, I NEED IT, need ya, need ya,
JIM: Didja see it! You wanna see it
AGAIN???: The crowd roars its approval. Confusion reigns. Drunken CATCALLS. Things, bras, cans thrown at the stage.
VOICES: ( ad lib ) Take it off! Take it all off!
JIM: What if I pull it out fer ya!! And SHAKE IT AROUND!!! Will that do it for you! Would ya, would ya, would ya!! Now watch I'm gonna show it to ya!
JIM: There it was! Ya see it? Ya see it?. Ya wanna see it again?
TEENAGE GIRL: I saw it!. Yes, yes! Jim! Jim!
JIM: ( roaring out his commands )
RAY: HEY JIM. C'MON! C'MON! NO LIMITS, NO LAWS! NO LIMITS, NO LAWS! NO LIMITS, NO LAWS!
JIM: C'MON! C'MON! NO LIMITS, NO LAWS! NO LIMITS, NO LAWS! NO LIMITS, NO LAWS!
PROMOTER: ( pissed, head bandaged )
COPS: Where's the guy with the penis!
JUDGE VOICE: .you are charged under four counts with lewd behavior, simulated masturbation, public drunkenness, profanity, and public exposure.
JIM SONG: Poor Otis dead and gone Left me here to sing his song Pretty little girl with the red dress on Poor Otis dead and gone
LAWYER: Your Honor, I would like to bring to the Court's attention the contemporary Broadway musical "Hair" in which cast members disrobe and appear naked on the stage.
JUDGE: ( pounds his gavel ) Inadmissable evidence.
LAWYER: Your Honor. any difference from the Miami nightclubs where comedians frequently incorporate profanity into their acts
JUDGE: ( gavel ) Inadmissable evidence.
LAWYER: ( distant ) .there has not been one shred of evidence: 300 photographs and not one shows a thing; not reliable testimony, nothing but hysterical
LAWYER: .this is a major First Amendment violation by the Police and Politicians of Miami. Every witness they've brought has admitted under oath to not actually seeing the client's genitals except one who.
JIM: .Well, you gonna get rid of it? Fucked up people y'know, crazies, unwanted Indians just throw it in the river.
PATRICIA: I can't fucking believe you just said that!
JIM: Patricia, wouldn't it be better to have a kid with someone who wanted to be its father?
PATRICIA: It'd be a fucking genius, that's what it'd be! You and me. The child would be a god, goddess!
JIM: It'd be a monster.
JIM: I got this trial dragging on me, Patricia. I couldn't support the kid I can't afford it and I don't want the responsibility right now.
PATRICIA: You're a COWARD!! A LITTLE BOY!! The only way you can't afford it is emotionally. You forgot your vows man. They were forever in the goddess' sight. Death doesn't part, only love Come on Patricia, I was stoned. it seemed like the fun thing at the
JIM: Come on Patricia, I was stoned. it seemed like the fun thing at the
PATRICIA: I'm gonna cut your balls off Morrison!
JIM: ( that smile ) You want 'em?
PATRICIA: ( beat ) FUCK YOU. I'm gonna have the kid.
JIM: Then it'll be your kid. If you want the abortion I'll pay for it and I'll come up to New York to be with you when you have it.
PATRICIA: No you won't.
JIM: Yes I will.
PATRICIA: Bullshit Morrison You know who you are. NO. What difference does it make. You know, you never pretended. I did. I don't even like kids but I don't want the other thing either. I guess what I really want is to throw myself off this fucking Well now that you've fucked the future, Morrison, have you fucked Have you looked at yourself in the mirror. Your stomach.
JIM: ( hurt, near tears ) Please don't say those things to me,
PATRICIA: Fuck me one last time, you worthless piece of shit.
SPEAKER: ( bullhorn ) .endorsed by President Richard ( cheers ) The immoral conduct of degenerates such as Jim Morrison is an unacceptable insult to this country and the principles for which it
JIM: Well uh, it's designed to wear you down y'know. when that rap sheet says the "United States of America versus You" it takes you down day by day, specially when no one really gives a shit about, y'know, the First Amendment that's on trial here. Nobody says anything about that, it's just uh did you take your pants off y'know, I mean that's not what it's about, it's about freedom, that's what it's about. but who cares, right? Freedom exists in a schoolbook.
REPORTER 1: ( disinterested ) .but the promoters are cancelling your shows, will this affect the way you play?
JIM: Well, I can only open doors, M'am. I can't drag people thru 'em. I'm no But you've called yourself a shaman?
REPORTER 2: But you've called yourself a shaman?
JIM: ( beat, pained ) Did I? Well, I'll tell ya, my words stand a far better chance of being around a hundred years from now than my waistline.
ANCHORLADY: The question that will be answered today: Did Jim Morrison or did he not take off his pants last March? This is.
JUDGE: James Douglas Morrison, I hereby sentence you to sixty days of hard labor in the Dade County Jail and for public exposure I am sentencing you to six months of the same, after which you are to serve two years and four months of probationary time.
SECRETARY: ( overlapping ) I booked you round trip to New York for Thursday, Pamela's called six times, Patricia, Kathy, Judy, Gayle is pregnant, she says but. you gotta get straight, honey, go to sleep, get a massage, go to the dentist, get a haircut honey, you gotta cool out.
JOHN: Probably a bath too.
OFFICE BOY: ( reading a rock magazine ) Jesus Jim, this guy really despises .didn't invite us to Woodstock. Twenty other groups but not.
JOHN: .didn't invite us to Woodstock. Twenty other groups but not.
SIDDONS: What's heavy is the radio stations pulling us from their playlists. The big cities Philly, Cinci, Chicago, Detroit it's insane! Record sales "The band you love to hate".
RAY: ( with irony, reading something ) "The band you love to hate".
LAWYER: ( 2nd Lawyer if necessary ) We can drag this appeal out for years, we can keep you out of jail.
JIM: ( drinking ) You're drinking with number three.
SIDDONS: Max firmly believes the FBI's behind it. We're subpoenaing their records they had memos on you in Phoenix and they got you extradicted to Miami illegally without a felony.
MIKE: A new image Jim Morrison as "Renaissance Man" We bring you back slow, quiet, the beard, elder of the tribe.
OFFICE BOY: ( reading from review ) .like Lennon said "you either grow with the music or it grows without Hey, it was fun.
ROBBIE: Hey, it was fun.
VOICES: First Hendrix now Janis Robbie flew to Hawaii legalities pending dispositions book in Toronto interview with PBS renew your diverse license psychic predictions nine paternity suits fifty thousand dollar bond recoup our losses Pamela's shopping spree with your credit card Morrison Hotel some-body from film school mountain of coke in the broom closet Jac Holzman eight thirty in the morning remix perform schedule Paul Rothchild taxes Texas teenyboppers
TELEVISION: Chicago Seven in it's tenth day. Bobby Seale gagged and chained. L.A. shootout with Black Panthers. Charles Manson indicted for murder of actress Sharon Tate. U. S. ground troops in Laos and Indians still occupying Alcatraz For the My Lai massacre testified 120 villagers shot by American soldiers in a trench.
JIM: ( mildly ) I think I'm having a nervous
PAM: JIM! PLEASE GODDAMIT!! COME BACK IN
PLEASE!!: JIM yelling back, as he drinks from a pint of whiskey, enjoying himself enormously.
JIM: Whatcha worried about? I like it out
PAM: RAY and SIDDONS arrive, terrified, looking for him.
NOOOOOO!!: RAY and SIDDONS arrive, terrified, looking for him.
JIM: ( laughing at Pam ) Life on the edge baby. Come get me if you love me baby.
PAM: PLEASE GODDAMIT JIM MORRISON I'M NOT GONNA KILL MYSELF FOR YOU. GET IN
MIKE: ( dancing ) We got it man! Keep going. Great get a two shot.
BAKER: GO ON GET OUT THERE PAM.
PAM: JIM MORRISON GODDAMIT I LOVE YOU I WANT YOU I NEED YOU.
JIM: ( raw )
RAY: Pam!! Oh shit. get the ambulances
RAY: ( yelling down ) JIM! HELP HER. She's gonna fall.
TOM: He watches, does nothing.
JIM: Come on baby, come on.
RAY: ( trying another tack ) Jim we gotta finish "LA Woman".
JIM: Don't have an ending Ray.
RAY: ( white ) They're both gonna die. ARE YOU
JIM: Come on baby, come on
PAM: ( quoting him ) ".but one, the most beautiful one of all dances in a ring of fire
JIM: ( raw singing ) "I see your hair is burning. If they say I never loved you, you know they are a liar!"
PAM: ".and throws off the challenge with a shrug"
JIM: All the poetry has wolves in it Pam!!!
PAM: I don't wanna die with you Jim Morrison, I don't wanna die!
JIM: C'mon Pam, this is it! We'll do it right here! Right now! You and me!
PAM: Jim let's go, let's leave this town! You and me! Never come back.
JIM: ( demonic ) We can. Right now. Just one more No Jim. I want to LIVE with you. I want to LIVE with you.
PAM: No Jim. I want to LIVE with you. I want to LIVE with you.
JIM: ( a poem ) There was preserved in her the fresh miracle of surprise. clothed in sunlight restless in wanting dying of fever married to doubt how it has changed you how slowly estranged you solely arranged you beg for your mercy OR .but all will pass lie down in green grass and smile and muse and gaze upon her smooth resemblance to the mating-Queen who it seems is in love with the horseman Tomorrow we enter the tomb of my birth I want to be ready.
JIM: Eek Dorothy! You cut your hair!
DOROTHY: We're trying to have another baby.
JIM: ( moving past her ) What was your hair getting in the ( she smacks him lightly ) Where are the kids?
JIM: Hey am I late or is this the cool remnant of a dream?
KIDS: ( rushing to him ) Eee! Jim! It's Uncle Jim. Come on. what did you bring me Jim.
JIM: ( picks up Robin ) How's my girl! And how's my boy!
JIM: ( ad libs ) For you. Pancho gets this one. Melanie yours. Hey Dorothy don't grab now. open that one, that's yours. keep your paws off that
JIM: ( to Robin, a 5 year old ) .and to you, princess, from your Royal servant, James Douglas Morrison ( bows )
RAY: You wanna hear the new mixes on "LA
JIM: No, I gotta plane to catch.
JOHN: Won't take long man, it's the best one since "Days".
ROBBIE: We added rain to "Riders", come on.
KID: Ugh! What's that!
ROBIN: ( to Jim ) It's you.
JIM: Forever young.
ROBIN: Oh it's beautiful. Thank you Uncle
JIM: I gotta admit that ain't bad for four guys who weren't even talking that day.
JOHN: You really gonna live in Paris man?
JIM: Yeah John, be anonymous, write a book: "Observations of an American While on Trial in Miami".
ROBBIE: I still think we got a couple of great blues albums in us man.
JIM: I'm pinned man. Everything I do they got a category for it, y'know. Freedom's gone.
JOHN: Hey, I'm gonna miss you Jim. I'm gonna miss the feeling of playing music with you.
JIM: You can always whip the horses' eyes. You, John, miss me?
JOHN: More than you think asshole.
ROBBIE: ( walking him to the garden ) Well far as I'm concerned, Jim, I made music with Dionysus man. We had some moments on stage like no one will ever fucking know.
JIM: ( making light ) Yeah, yeah and you lay off those drugs Rob. We're gonna play again some day.
ROBBIE: Jim "do not go gently into that good night. Rage rage against the dying of the light".
GIRLS: Come 'ere Uncle Jim, we're playing blind man's bluff.
JIM: ( to Robin ) So what are you gonna be when you grow up?
ROBIN: I wanna be your wife
JIM: I don't know, can I afford you? Pam kinda wiped me out with her dress store y'know.
ROBIN: I'll make my own dresses and you'll see, I'll be the best wife.
DOROTHY: ( nodding ) You'll never be alone Jim.
JIM: ( to Dorothy ) You know I've never been happier. Not as much of a rush as I used to be in y'know. this is the strangest life I've ever known.
RAY: Gotta plane to catch man?
JIM: O?. splittling headache from which the future is made.
RAY: Is Pam really there in Paris waiting?
JIM: ( ironic, head hurts ) Sure. The Count's there so where else would she be? Gotta try to start over, without all the hassles, y'know. I think we can.
RAY: I never knew what you saw in that nightmare chick man.
JIM: Well she is kinda flakey like me. I mean she's just so vulnerable about everything. It makes me sad man. But she's always kinda believed in something about me y'know her little picture of me as the unsung poet and it's a fantasy I kinda dig y'know, 'stead of the one I live.
RAY: I don't know man, I don't wanna sound like your old man but you're only 27, you're living like you gotta get it all in, you gotta slow down man, you did it, you broke thru to the other side.
JIM: We didn't break thru Ray, we just pushed things a little. When you really break thru, there's nothing left. No music, no Doors, no God, nothing only a will to power.
RAY: I don't believe that. You were an American prince, man with overbred No! What could've been Jim? You could've been President. No man! What could've been Jim? We stood here on this beach on the edge of the Pacific that crazy summer day in '65 and we knew, you and I, we knew we were at the edge of the mind. we were there, man. One planet, one globe, one mind. Consciousness, we raised it, we were there.
JIM: And now what?
RAY: ( smiles, lethally sweet ) You've made me into Ishmael. I am the last survivor of the Pequod. And I exist only to tell the story of Ahab who fought the black whale.
JIM: ( loves it, laughs ) It was white Ray. You gotta stop harpin' on that day. I was so ripped I can hardly remember it.
RAY: Hey, what was that poem you once wrote about two chicks on the pier?
JIM: Come on man, I gotta fly.
RAY: Come on. Just once.
JIM: ( VOICE OVER, pulling out the car ) In that year we had a great Visitation of energy Back in those days Everything was simpler and more One summer night, going to the pier I ran into two young girls The blonde was called Freedom The dark one Enterprise We talked And they told me this story.
RAY: ( OVER ) What was the story?
MORRISON: Well, didja get all that?
GHOSTMAN: You done good, Jim, go now rest
ENGINEER: Yeah, I got it Jim.
JIM: Aw right. Let's get some tacos!
PAM: Jim. that you?
PAM: Jim! It was you. I always know when it's you. Come on baby get out of the tub. mama'll dry you off. Jim Morrison, now you stop joking you hear me, cut it out! .was it all right Jim, did you enjoy it when it came my baby? Just like you said it'd be?
PAM: .was it all right Jim, did you enjoy it when it came my baby? Just like you said it'd be?
JIM: ( OVER ) They are waiting to take us into the severed garden do you know how pale and wanton thrillful comes death at a strange hour? Unannounced unplanned for like a scaring overfriendly guest you've brought to bed? Death makes angels of us all? And gives us wings where we had shoulders smooth as raven's claws.
JIM: ( OVER ) No more money, no more fancy dress this other kingdom seems by far the best until its other jaw reveals incest and loose obedience to a vegetable law. I will not go I prefer a feast of friends to the giant
GHOST ANNOUNCER: Ladies and Gentlemen, from Los Angeles California The Doors!
JIM: Well, I'll tell you a story of whiskey, mystics and men And about the believers and how the whole thing began First there were women and children obeying the moon Then daylight brought wisdom and sickness too soon. the moon is a dry blood beast We have assembled inside this ancient and insane theatre to propagate our lust for life and flee the swarming wisdom of the streets we live we die and death not ends it
JIM: Bird of prey, bird of prey Flying high, flying high in the summer Bird of prey, bird of prey flying high, flying high gently pass by Bird of prey, bird of prey flying high, flying high Take me on your flight I will come again down from the wild
CONK,: A DONTA EATCHA COONA NEECHA BOP-A- LOOLA, LECHOW, BOMPA KECHOW YESOW CONK, YEAH RITE ASHEN LADY ( X2 ) GIVE UP YOUR VOWS ( X2 ) SAVE OUR CITY ( X2 ) RIGHT NOW ( X2 ) WELL I WOKE UP THIS MORNING I GOT MYSELF A BEER ( X2 ) THE FUTURE'S UNCERTAIN THE END IS ALWAYS NEAR LET IT ROLL BABY ROLL ( X3 ) ALL NITE LONG
CONK, YEAH: RITE ASHEN LADY ( X2 ) GIVE UP YOUR VOWS ( X2 ) SAVE OUR CITY ( X2 ) RIGHT NOW ( X2 ) WELL I WOKE UP THIS MORNING I GOT MYSELF A BEER ( X2 ) THE FUTURE'S UNCERTAIN THE END IS ALWAYS NEAR LET IT ROLL BABY ROLL ( X3 ) ALL NITE LONG
ALWAYS NEAR: LET IT ROLL BABY ROLL ( X3 ) ALL NITE LONG
THE END: Writers : Randall Jahnson Oliver Stone
