SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN: CASTLE - NIGHT Now comes the moon riding over the horizon. Upon a hill at the edge of the wood squats a castle, its crude stonework bathed in cold silvery light. Queer carvings and runes decorate the ponderous gate. Heavy vines are climbing up the walls. The castle is old, its unfamiliar form testament to an ancient mind and an ancient craft. Flickering candle light dances on a leaded windowpane. Inside, the corridors are dark and silent. Under low arched ceilings the uneven floors are paved with stone blocks. Perched over lintels and crouched in niches are icons with strange animal heads.
HODGE: A sleep on a straw palette in a room strewn with vegetables and crockery is Hodge, a wrinkled old retainer. A flickering candle and empty jug are beside the bed. He is snoring gently.
CONJURING ROOM: This circular chamber at the heart of the castle is stuffed with parchments, scrolls, dusty books, bronze braziers, glass retorts, chemical salts, birds both stuffed and caged. An iron candelabra stands on a work table, tapers burning. In the soft glow it seems that the room is unoccupied, but no, moving in the background is a shadowy figure, preparing for a magical deed. Feet are positioned carefully within a pentagram chiseled into the floor. A scroll is consulted; up comes an arm and a voice blurts out:
VOICE: Omnia in duos: Duo in Unum: Unus in Nihil: Haec nec Quattuor nec Omnia nec Duo nec Unus nec Nihil Sunt.
VOICE: Come on, candles, out!
VOICE: In Volunta Divina et Verbum Magi: Lux! Exstinguat!
TOWER: Carrying the candelabra, the youth trudges up a circular The highest point of the castle is a turret, open to the stars and the night air. Here, more magic is afoot. An old enchanter, Ulrich, Magister Ipsissimus, pours water from a silver ewer into a stone bowl. As the surface ripples disappear he leans forward and gazes into the pool. All at once his face hardens as the distant sounds of screams and thunder reach his ears. Lights and shadows, reflected from within the basin, play across his face. His frown deepens as the sound of his own voice comes to him from the vision in the water Draco draconis suddenly squelched by the roar of flame and an ugly snarl. At that moment Galen reaches the top of the steps and holds up the candelabra.
TURRET: The highest point of the castle is a turret, open to the stars and the night air. Here, more magic is afoot. An old enchanter, Ulrich, Magister Ipsissimus, pours water from a silver ewer into a stone bowl. As the surface ripples disappear he leans forward and gazes into the pool. All at once his face hardens as the distant sounds of screams and thunder reach his ears. Lights and shadows, reflected from within the basin, play across his face. His frown deepens as the sound of his own voice comes to him from the vision in the water Draco draconis suddenly squelched by the roar of flame and an ugly snarl. At that moment Galen reaches the top of the steps and holds up the candelabra.
GALEN: Vide, Magister. There's something
GALEN: What's the matter? What's happened?
ULRICH: I've just seen something. Something of consequence to you.
GALEN: To me?
ULRICH: ( calm ) Yes. My own death. Perhaps we had better hasten your
ULRICH: Perhaps we had better hasten your
ULRICH: ( stern and troubled ) This wood, these leaves, the birds, the very dome of heaven, once they all rang with one great chord: and philosophers like me kept it all in tune. Now, new voices are singing new songs. ( sharply ) Have you mastered the threefold Of course.
GALEN: Of course.
ULRICH: ( skeptical ) You have?
GALEN: Well, almost.
ULRICH: It's very difficult. Have you committed to memory undying the Codex de Profundis?
GALEN: ( a shrug ) The first two chapters.
ULRICH: It's long. And what about the Ritual of Banishment as prescribed by my late master Balisarius?
GALEN: To tell the truth, I haven't dared try it. What's the point, anyway?
ULRICH: The point? The point is you don't know it, and you're no magician without it. It was my hope to school you, to mold your faculties and wits. I still believe you have some talent. Somewhere.
GALEN: I hate books. I hate drill. I want a real task.
ULRICH: There's no time now. When I'm gone, half the powers in the universe will vanish with me. And what's the use of a few lingering skills if they're left in the hands of a child? I don't hear anything.
GALEN: I don't hear anything.
ULRICH: Here, wear this.
GALEN: Voices, singing on the road.
GALEN: I don't see anything.
AIRBORNE: The old conjurer squints into the distance. Miles away and far below a company of drab walkers winds along the margins of the forest. They are singing a mournful round.
GALEN: He gawks skyward. Suddenly, the old man leans down and addresses him.
ULRICH: ( a shout ) We have visitors!
CONJURING ROOM: Galen helps Ulrich prepare for the audience. The sorcerer peers at himself in a full-length mirror, adjusting the hem of a black robe.
ULRICH: Looks forbidding enough, don't you Here are your sticks.
GALEN: Here are your sticks.
ULRICH: No they'll think me infirm. You know, Balisarius wore this whenever he changed lead into gold. He could really do that, you know. I never could. Too bad you'd stand to inherit some real wealth.
GALEN: You're in a morbid frame of mind. What's all this about dying? You don't even look sick.
ULRICH: ( tying on a sash ) You still wearing that amulet? ( Galen nods ) Good. Don't lose it. It still belongs to me.
ULRICH: Now, adeptus minor, get yourself a handful of that sulphurous ash over
THE ROTUNDA: The visitors watch warily as a door swings open and Galen makes his entrance, his face expressionless and hands pressed together. He looks rather young to be the famous Ulrich. Galen allows a moment to go by, then throws his arms wide. Ka-whump! and Ulrich appears in the doorway in a smoky fireball. Alarmed, the visitors retreat.
ULRICH: Nunc habeus lux!
ULRICH: Et calor!
ULRICH: Welcome to Cragganmore. I am Ulrich. Which one of you calls himself
VALERIAN: That would be me. We are here on I know why you're here. You're a delegation from Urland, from beyond Dalvatia. Let's see the artifacts.
ULRICH: I know why you're here. You're a delegation from Urland, from beyond Dalvatia. Let's see the artifacts.
VALERIAN: A bone. Scorched. A rock, fire-
ULRICH: All right. How did you come by these?
VALERIAN: ( proudly ) I found them. At the mouth of the ( grim ) What else?
ULRICH: ( grim ) What else?
VALERIAN: A claw.
ULRICH: That's no claw. It's a tooth. By the
ULRICH: And you want me to do battle with
VALERIAN: Who else can we turn to? We all know what we're dealing with here. This is a basilicok. A cockatrice. A dragon. This is no stag, no bear, no natural creature. This is one of your kind. And only a necromancer such as yourself can rid us of it.
ULRICH: Did you try the Meredydd sisters? What about Rinbod? I've heard it said he killed a dragon once.
VALERIAN: They're all dead. You're the only one left.
ULRICH: It's a long way to Urland.
VALERIAN: Every quarter, upon the solstices and the equinoxes there's a new
GREIL: My daughter, for one.
OTHER TRAVELERS: My sister. cousins.
ULRICH: All women?
VALERIAN: Girls. Virgins, to be exact, chosen by lot. Master, don't you think
GALEN: Master, don't you think
ULRICH: He broods for a long time.
VALERIAN: Are you afraid of dragons?
ULRICH: No. Sorcerers and dragons go back a long long time together. If it weren't for sorcerers, there wouldn't be any All right. I'll go.
ULRICH: I know of this dragon. Vermithrax Pejorative: she's four hundred years old. As far as I can tell she's the last of her kind. Very appropriate that I'm the one to finish her off, don't you think? There. Flatten the highest mountain. What say you, Galen? Speak up. You, Hodge.
ULRICH: ( to Galen ) While I'm gone see you keep your nose in your books and your hands out of my reagents. Leave my instruments alone too. Look at yourself. How far will you get like that? A league, two leagues?
GALEN: Look at yourself. How far will you get like that? A league, two leagues?
ULRICH: I'm not worried about the road.
GALEN: ( sarcastic ) Why don't you wave your hands around and summon up a coach-and-four?
ULRICH: Don't mock me.
GALEN: You pilgrims: You're used to lotteries. Why not draw straws to see who'll be first to carry ironshanks here.
HODGE: Hold your tongue. If the master's got a mind to go, he'll go.
GALEN: Send me. You're always saying I need seasoning. I need a test. Let me go.
ULRICH: You're not ready.
GALEN: I'm ready for anything.
ULRICH: ( wan smile ) Don't be so hasty. Your time will
HORSEMEN: Three mounted men are outside the gate, helmets on their heads, swords on the belts and longbows across their shoulders. They look formidable. The Urlanders take a step Tyrian is a lean, heavily bearded nobleman. There is a coat of arms on the shield strapped to the pommel of his saddle.
VALERIAN: Tyrian is a lean, heavily bearded nobleman. There is a coat of arms on the shield strapped to the pommel of his saddle.
TYRIAN: ( amiable ) Good morning, all.
VALERIAN: We're not afraid of you. Give us the Why, the road is yours. All the way to Urland. It's a long journey, isn't it? But when you're in search of a sorcerer, I suppose no distance is too great. Say nothing.
TYRIAN: Why, the road is yours. All the way to Urland. It's a long journey, isn't it? But when you're in search of a sorcerer, I suppose no distance is too great. Say nothing.
ULRICH: ( under his breath ) Say nothing.
HODGE: What do you want with us?
TYRIAN: Well, like my good friends here, I've come for a bit of black magic. No doubt you've heard of our troubles at home. This is Cragganmore, is it Aye, this be the place of Ulrich.
HODGE: Aye, this be the place of Ulrich.
TYRIAN: And here we have the mystical presence himself, no?
HODGE: You'd best keep your distance and your manners.
TYRIAN: If he's ready to lay a dragon in its grave, he's got nothing to fear from I've no more love for that creature than you lot. Nor has the King. But, before you stir things up, don't you think it a good idea to see you've got the right man for the job?
HODGE: Aha it's a test you're looking for. We don't do tests.
TYRIAN: I'm sure you don't. They never do tests and not many real deeds either. Oh, conversation with your grandmother's shade in a darkened room, the odd love potion or two. but comes a doubter, well then, it's the wrong day, the planets are not aligned, the entrails aren't favorable, we don't do tests.
VALERIAN: We've got no doubts. We require no And you're not going to get one. Go to the conjuring room. The iron box. Fetch me the dagger within.
HODGE: And you're not going to get one. Go to the conjuring room. The iron box. Fetch me the dagger within.
ULRICH: ( to Galen ) Go to the conjuring room. The iron box. Fetch me the dagger within.
ULRICH: The dagger. Be quick. You shall have your test.
ULRICH: You shall have your test.
CONJURING ROOM: Galen comes puffing up the steps, locates the iron box, and flings it open. Amidst the tawdry paraphernalia of a professional magician is an ivory-handled dagger covered with runic inscriptions. Galen eagerly examines it to see how the blade might twist aside or collapse into the handle, but it is all too genuine. A murder weapon.
ULRICH'S VOICE: ( impatient ) Where are you, boy? I'm waiting.
GALEN: Not this one, was it?
ULRICH: The very one. Let it fall.
ULRICH: Vita regula, vita hieratica!
ULRICH: Go on. Don't worry, you can't hurt
CONJURING ROOM: Galen stops hammering and presses his face to a crack in the shutter. Below he can see the participants in this grisly drama. He holds his breath. Tyrian makes a sudden movement and buries the blade in Ulrich's chest. But the sorcerer stands unbent, seemingly unhurt. Then, after a long moment, he slowly sags forward over the dagger and the hand that holds it. Tyrian shrinks back and allows the body to fall in a heap. Very quickly he remounts. In another moment he and his companions are gone. The others are riveted in horror. Hodge sinks to his knees and wails his grief. Galen turns away from the window and gazes blankly into the gloomy conjuring room. Click! The doors unlatch themselves and swing open.
GALEN: The erstwhile apprentice stands his ground, blinking back tears, his face weirdly illuminated by the fire.
COURTYARD: Hodge is up on the burned out funeral pyre, anxiously scraping ashes and small bones into a leather pouch the remains of Ulrich. Up behind him comes Galen, now clad in a traveler's cloak, with a pack on his back and a staff in his hand.
GALEN: Hodge what are you doing?
HODGE: Just making my farewell, thank you very much.
HODGE: Be careful with that! You don't know what you're doing.
GALEN: Stand back!
GALEN: Cragganmore! Domus non i am! Silva
CRAGGANMORE: The vines on the castle walls begin to twitch and stretch, magically brought to animate life. They flow upward over the masonry, branching out and covering every surface, then up onto the roof. Finally only the tops of the chimneys and the highest turrets stand above the green carpet. A century's growth in a matter of seconds.
HODGE: Oh, it's a vale of tears in which we dwell. It doesn't matter who you are, a king in his robes, a peasant in his rags, when your time comes, no magic can save you.
GALEN: I guess.
HODGE: .the kindest lord a man could ask for. now he's gone. Ye gods he was fussy about his bath. And you'd think he could boil his own eggs with the snap of a finger, but no, he had old Hodge do it, of course. Up before five I was, mucking out the cages, slopping the pigs, and never once got so much as a thankyou or a pat on the back. I'm going to miss him.
GALEN: Me too.
HODGE: No you don't. All you care about is the tricks and knavery. Well, you don't pull any wool over these old eyes. It'll be a mighty long walk before you fill his shoes, you mark my word.
GALEN: What's the matter, Hodge, pack too heavy? Here.
HODGE: Careful with that!
GALEN: Too cold, is it?
HODGE: Stop it!
GALEN: Too warm?
HODGE: ( spluttering ) Stop it, I say! Out of respect for the master!
GALEN: I've got as much respect for the master as anyone, old man. But then again, I'm master now.
GREIL: I left my farm with seeds unplanted, calves unborn, nothing but a wife to chase down the strays, and for what? A funeral, that's what.
GREIL: Because some people said, find a magician. Not just a local fellow, an import, a good forty leagues from home. An all-powerful necromancer. Ha some necromancer!
MALKIN: Hold your tongue, Greil. Sit. Eat.
GREIL: I'll not sit. I'll not eat. See you the Great Bear. His tail points east. It's the equinox. Have you forgotten? Or rather not think about it?
VALERIAN: ( miserable ) He's right. I brought us here for nothing. May the gods help whoever's daughter it is tonight.
HODGE: Good morrow, good morrow. Peace be with you.
GALEN: Easy now. We mean no harm. We've been looking for you.
GREIL: ( growl ) Well, you've found us.
GALEN: ( brushing himself off ) More the other way around, I'd say.
VALERIAN: What do you want?
GALEN: A few words, that's all. You were looking for a conjurer.
VALERIAN: He's dead.
GALEN: Right. Requiscat in pace. Ecce: magister novus!
GREIL: How say you?
GALEN: My lord Ulrich is no longer. All that you asked of him, you may now expect of me. The dangers he would face, I will now conquer. The task he would undertake I will now fulfill. I am Galen Bradwardyn, inheritor of Ulrich's craft and knowledge, and I am the Sorcerer you seek.
GREIL: Well, that's a handsome thought, O wizard of wizards. But if there's one thing our friend Tyrian has shown us, it's to beware the pig in the poke. Who's got a dagger?
HODGE: No tests!!
GREIL: Call it proof, then.
VALERIAN: We've seen enough tests.
GREIL: Well I haven't. All I've seen is death. Death in our families, death on the road, and tonight, death at
VALERIAN: What's come over you, anyway? Have you lost your wits?
GREIL: I don't like it. Young snot-nose comes in here for sport at our expense. We're on a fool's errand, but we don't have to listen to this. I don't want to hear any more about sorcery. I don't want to hear any more about spells.
VALERIAN: You must be hungry.
GALEN: ( nods ) What's the matter with him?
VALERIAN: It's not just him. It's all of us. It's the equinox.
HORSRIK: Close enough! Bring her out!
HORSRIK: Now be it known throughout the kingdom, that this maiden, having lawfully been chosen by a deed of fortune and destiny, shall hereby give up her life for the greater good of Urland.
HORSRIK: By this act shall be satisfied the powers that dwell underground and the spirits that attend thereto. In gratitude for this sacrifice His Majesty has declared the family what's the name?
RETAINER: Plowman! The family Plowman!
HORSRIK: ( rushing it ) the family Plowman to be free of obligations, taxations, levys and imposts for a period not to exceed five years.
HORSRIK: ordained and signed this day, etc., Casiodorus, in his glory the reigning king of this our realm. his seal, his mark, duly read by Chancellor Horsrik in his holy name.
THE GIRL: She strains against her manacles, cocking her head to listen as the rumblings below subside. Presently the steam and smoke blow away and she can see the horse pawing and stamping a hundred yards distant, the wheel of the cart jammed between rocks. Summoning up a wild will to live, she squeezes her hands against the cold iron rings. No use. She spits on her wrists and twists desperately. Blood starts. One hand slips free. She looks at the horse. The animal tosses off its blindfold and looks back at her. Now she strains again and pulls her other hand free. She wipes the blood on her frock and sprints toward the horse. But she doesn't get there. The earth abruptly shifts from under her feet, tumbling her among cracked and steaming rocks. When she raises her head a huge shadow has fallen over the horse. There is a piteous whinny, then a roar. The girl's face is suddenly lit by flames. She scrambles to her feet and rushes back the other way.
THE CHASE: The girl hasn't taken a dozen steps when something huge hurtles forward and blocks her way. Something scaly and glittering. She whirls and stumbles off in a new direction. This time she's cut off by a monstrous claw tipped with rapier- like talons. She screams and crawls away. Another claw prevents her escape.
THE CREATURE: Membranous wings fold down against the night sky. Up comes the silhouette of a reptilian head swaying on a serpentine neck. There's an angry hiss. A sheet of flame envelops FADE IN: FOREST - DAY Tyrian kneels beside a mountain waterfall, having a drink while his men hover in the background. One of them points down the slope.
MAN: There. I see them.
TYRIAN: Who's that old man?
MAN: Where? Which one?
TYRIAN: That one. That's the man from Cragganmore. Now what's he doing Filling in for the chief, I reckon.
MAN: Filling in for the chief, I reckon.
TYRIAN: ( weary ) What a pity.
HODGE: Hodge marches along with the rest. When he's sure no one else is looking he burrows into his garments and brings out the leather pouch containing Ulrich's ashes. Reassured that it's still with him, he tucks it away again. Galen falls into step.
GALEN: What have you got there?
HODGE: None of your business.
GALEN: A little gold, eh? What do you say I change it into lead?
HODGE: Save your jokes for someone else. Me, I don't care for braggarts.
HODGE: And I don't care for frauds.
GALEN: I'm no fraud.
HODGE: Call it fool then. Upstart. Whatever pleases you.
GALEN: Hodge, nobody forced you to come Oh, I'm here of my own free will, all right. We each do the master's bidding in our own way.
HODGE: Oh, I'm here of my own free will, all right. We each do the master's bidding in our own way.
GALEN: Well, if he told you I needed wetnursing, why don't you just turn yourself around and go back home.
HODGE: Home, is it? You've seen to that, haven't you? Gone to seed, I'd say.
GALEN: He walks back along the trail, looking for Valerian. Pretty soon the rest of the travelers are out of sight. He hears the sound of a splash. He turns off the trail and pushes through some shrubbery.
FOREST POOL: Under the oaks and hickory, a forest stream has widened into a quiet pool. A pile of clothes lies on a rock at the edge. Out in the middle, Valerian is treading water.
GALEN: You're too far behind us. Come on You go ahead, I'll catch up.
VALERIAN: You go ahead, I'll catch up.
GALEN: Not a good idea to get separated. Let's go.
VALERIAN: Right. I'll be along.
VALERIAN: That's all right. Don't come in.
VALERIAN: ( edgy ) You better get back to the group, they're probably worried.
VALERIAN: I prefer to swim alone, if you don't
UNDERWATER: Galen works his way through the murky green underwater world. Suddenly, he stops short and stares. He's only a few feet from Valerian's dangling legs. He gasps in surprise. Valerian is no boy.
GALEN: By the gods!
VALERIAN: Stay away.
VALERIAN: I suppose you'll tell everyone. Go ahead, I don't care. It's a relief.
GALEN: I'm not going to say anything.
VALERIAN: I don't blame you. I was stupid. Careless. A silly woman!
GALEN: ( feeble bluff ) Take it easy. I knew the moment I saw you. I've known the whole time.
VALERIAN: You never knew a thing. No one knew. Not since I was born. Go on, run off and tell them. It'll make a great Don't worry. No one's going to find out. Just tell me: why?
GALEN: Don't worry. No one's going to find out. Just tell me: why?
VALERIAN: Ask my father.
GALEN: The lottery! Daughters are chosen, but sons are not!
VALERIAN: That's right. Unless you have plenty of gold or property.
GALEN: What do you mean?
VALERIAN: If you're rich enough, your name never goes in. My father is poor. So are a lot of
THE VISION: Galen walks down to the edge of the pool to retrieve his pack. As he leans over he catches sight of what appears to be a reflection in the water: Tyrian on horseback. He whips around, but no one is behind him. Riveted by the vision, he hurries along the bank to follow it. After a few paces the blurry figure dismounts, unslings a longbow, nocks an arrow and draws the string taut.
GALEN: ( horrified )
FOREST: Galen sprints through the trees. Up ahead is Valerian, walking She glances back at him and grimly keeps on walking. Galen shoots past her and on into the forest.
GALEN: She glances back at him and grimly keeps on walking. Galen shoots past her and on into the forest.
GALEN: Galen races up the trail rounds a bend and sees the Urlanders coming toward him. Hodge precedes the group with an unsteady gait. He sees Galen, raises up his arms and flops face down on the trail. A long arrow protrudes from his back. Galen kneels beside him. The uneasy company keeps its distance. Hodge struggles to speak.
TRAVELERS: Galen races up the trail rounds a bend and sees the Urlanders coming toward him. Hodge precedes the group with an unsteady gait. He sees Galen, raises up his arms and flops face down on the trail. A long arrow protrudes from his back. Galen kneels beside him. The uneasy company keeps its distance. Hodge struggles to speak.
HODGE: Galen? Can you hear me?
GALEN: I hear you.
HODGE: You know, somebody shot me, but I can still talk. There's something that has to be done.
GALEN: I know.
HODGE: Not that cockatrice. Ulrich's ashes.
HODGE: Take it. Sorry, you'll have to peel it loose. .burning water. find the lake, throw it in.
HODGE: ( a croak ) .burning water. find the lake, throw it in.
GALEN: ( holding up the pouch ) What are you doing with this, Hodge?
HODGE: .burning water.
GALEN: Hodge, don't die. Listen to me. You're not going to die.
GALEN: Excede, mortem! Revoca, vitam! Excede, mortem! Revoca, vitam!
FJORD: The boat pulls into a long narrow waterway with granite cliffs on either side. Moving through swirls of fog, they beach the boat and step out onto a craggy shore. Greil leans over and kisses a rock.
GREIL: CUT TO:
VALERIAN: Come on. Don't dawdle here.
GALEN: The whole kingdom like this?
VALERIAN: No. We're near the lair. Keep moving.
GALEN: Over there. Doesn't matter. We're in no danger if we just pass through I see it. Let's have a look.
VALERIAN: Over there. Doesn't matter. We're in no danger if we just pass through I see it. Let's have a look.
GALEN: I see it. Let's have a look.
VALERIAN: But Galen is already toiling up the incline.
VALERIAN: Greil! Malkin! Help!
THE LAIR: Galen approaches the lair, pausing beside a wooden post with iron manacles dangling from it. He fingers them thoughtfully. Malkin, Greil and Valerian rush up behind him, their faces drawn with worry.
GREIL: Look, you don't have to do this. We know you're a fine young magician. None better. There's no need to prove it to us.
GALEN: Are there other entrances?
VALERIAN: No. One's enough.
GREIL: Come on. The road's this way. We'll tell everybody how close you got.
GALEN: ( coolly ) No smoke. How do you know it's in Don't be a fool. Come away now and live to tell about it.
GREIL: Don't be a fool. Come away now and live to tell about it.
VALERIAN: Go ahead! You're going to die! What a fine trick that will be!
UNDERGROUND: Galen puts his hand on the rugged wall: the rocks are hot to the touch. Something glinting on the floor catches Galen's eye: an irridescent disk, a dragon scale. It flashes the colors of the rainbow as Galen examines it. All at once the ground shudders; chunks of rock fall from the ceiling. A pall of smoke billows up from the depths.
OUTSIDE: Galen staggers out of the fissure coughing and gagging in a swirl of smoke. There is no sign of the Urlanders. He throws down his pack, climbs onto a huge boulder and surveys the massive cliffs rising behind the lair. He grasps the amulet and closes his eyes.
GALEN: Now, great mountain, hear my command: Terrae lapsus consignet latibulum draconis! Evanescat latibulum
LANDSLIDE: With a thunderous splitting sound, the entire top of the cliff pitches forward and topples onto the lower half of the mountain, sweeping tons of debris into the air. Boulders the size of houses bound down the mountain toward the magician. Eyes wide with awe, he turns and runs for his life. Even as he careens down the slope, chunks of rock rumble past. One catches him at the knee and sends him flying. He covers his head and joins the landslide. Finally the dust lifts and he finds himself in a gully face to face with the cowering Urlanders. They look with real fear at the man who just conjured up the Apocalypse. Tattered and torn, covered with dirt, Galen climbs up out of the shelter for a look at his handiwork.
LANDSCAPE: The territory has been drastically transformed: the dragon's lair is now buried beneath hundreds of tons of broken granite. The Urlanders look upon the new landscape with stupefaction. Galen grins a triumphant split-lip grin that fails to win them over. Presently they back away and run off down the trail, Valerian in their midst. Galen's grin fades.
VALERIAN: She trots across the square and enters a deserted blacksmith She goes over to the forge. Hot coals are burning. She becomes aware of a sound voices chanting.
VALERIAN: Father? Hello?
SQUARE: She walks across the square toward the voices. She is joined by Greil, Malkin and the other travelers, all of them puzzled by the desolation. As they approach the grange hall the voices grow louder. They seem to be singing. The main doors open briefly and three villagers scamper out, dripping wet and wrapped in white muslin. Valerian and her companions look at each other in astonishment.
BROTHER JACOPUS: Now are you cleansed of your sins! Now are you born again, purified in spirit, into the fellowship of Jesus
SIMON: Welcome back, my son.
VALERIAN: Father, what are you doing? Have you all lost your minds?
SIMON: Some have.
SIMON: It's this monk. He can read and write, and talk too, I'm afraid.
VALERIAN: And they listen?
SIMON: Shh! They think this a holy place, a This is the granary. What kind of welcome is this? I've got news of the sorcerer and news of the dragon.
VALERIAN: This is the granary. What kind of welcome is this? I've got news of the sorcerer and news of the dragon.
SIMON: You were brave to go, you and your friends. But nobody cares. Listen he knows what they want to hear.
MONK: Brother Jacopus strides back and forth before the assembly in an inspired state.
BROTHER JACOPUS: The man who walks with Christ is not a man to fear a dragon: Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I will fear no evil! You say you are preyed upon by a foul beast. Yes, but what is the nature of this beast? It comes to you on bat's wings and clawed feet, does it not? It breathes fire, does it not? And it lives under ground. This is no dragon. This is Lucifer!
VOICE: Whoever it is, he's dead.
BROTHER JACOPUS: Nay, brother! It is not as easy as that. Allegiance to Christ, to be sure, but also prayer and confession. These are the arms by which Satan may be put down.
GALEN: You're talking about superstition, friend. None of that has anything to do with what I, Galen, have already
SIMON: ( to Valerian ) You brought this stranger?
VALERIAN: Ulrich's apprentice. He's a braggart, but it doesn't matter.
GALEN: People of Urland! Send a messenger to the king. Vermithrax is dead. Crushed by the power of the moon and the stars! Laid low by ancient wisdom. Dropped into the Abyss by mystical Spoken like a pagan. Every word as reprobate as it is false! Solum in hoc signo vinces!
BROTHER JACOPUS: Spoken like a pagan. Every word as reprobate as it is false! Solum in hoc signo vinces!
GALEN: Nihil plus mysterium!
BROTHER JACOPUS: Praise God! Blessed is he that is humble before the Lord!
VALERIAN: Your god had nothing to do with it.
MALKIN: We saw it with our own eyes. He flew to the mountain top. He was a bird. He brought forth lightning. I saw
CELEBRATION: The inhabitants of Swanscombe have decked out the town square and are making a night of it. By torchlight they dance merrily to jigs and reels provided by the local fiddlers. Ale flows freely from oak casks.
VALERIAN'S HOUSE: Valerian is kneeling before a trunk full of women's clothing. She pulls out a long simple frock, goes to a crude mirror, and holds it up against her body to gauge the effect. Her father comes up behind her. He is angry and frightened.
SIMON: Put that away. What if you were seen?
VALERIAN: I'm going to be seen. I want to be seen. Tonight the world finds out that you never had a son.
SIMON: No, you mustn't do that. It's too soon. We've got to think about this, we've got to make a plan.
VALERIAN: Father: the danger is over.
SIMON: I know. What am I going to say to my friends who still mourn for their lost girls.
VALERIAN: You'll say you did what you had to. This is a time for celebration and forgiveness.
CELEBRATION: Galen is surrounded by a crowd of wide-eyed kids and not a few adults, entertaining them by pulling duck's eggs out of their ears and causing coins to disappear. Presently he feels the attention of his audience shift away to someone standing behind him. He turns to find a shy but determined Valerian sweetly decked out in her blue frock. A buzz goes through the crowd. Valerian blushes and wavers: she seems ready to bolt for home. But Galen takes her by the hand, and with conspicuous politesse leads her to the dance.
DANCE: It's forward, back and around sixth-century style: the young sorcerer can't take his eyes off his partner. But she's too shy to return his gaze.
GALEN: Looks like you've been up to a little sorcery yourself.
GALEN: Or is it witchcraft? What's the matter? A real woman never stops talking.
GALEN: What's the matter? A real woman never stops talking.
VALERIAN: I think it was much easier being a
SIMON: The damnedest thing is, she was twice the man of anyone else in the village. Now she's twice the woman.
GREIL: ( grim ) Would that I had been as clever as her father.
SIMON: Come now, Greil. Don't begrudge a life spared.
GREIL: I begrudge nothing. But I wonder at what we have seen and how it was You were there.
SIMON: You were there.
GREIL: I saw what I saw. But this jack-anapes was barely ready to carry his master's chamberpot. Isn't it strange that at the very moment the beast is put down we should have a holy man here in the village?
SIMON: You don't believe that superstitious Christian rot, do you?
GREIL: ( defensive ) It is said God works his wonders in mysterious ways.
CELEBRATION: While the proud Simon dances in the background with his daughter, a group of tipsy villagers clusters around Galen, belching forth a drinking song. The young magician raises his own mug and joins in on the chorus. Abruptly the music stops. The singing dies away. The ensuing silence is broken by the sound of galloping hooves. Presently three horsemen appear at the end of town: Tyrian and his henchmen. They guide their horses forward into the midst of the merry-makers. Tyrian dismounts and looks around in his usual friendly way.
TYRIAN: A celebration! Don't stop on my account. You musicians, more music!
TYRIAN: A toast! To the deed of the day! You see, good news travels fast. The King himself has already heard it. And like yourselves, tonight he's overcome with joy.
MALKIN: What would you have of us then?
TYRIAN: Not a thing. It's this one. The King would meet our new benefactor and offer his gratitude to the man who succeeded where so many have What sort of gratitude? A knife in the belly? An arrow in the back?
GALEN: ( sobering up ) What sort of gratitude? A knife in the belly? An arrow in the back?
TYRIAN: My young friend, I'd as soon dispatch you as I did the others, and for the same reason. But his Majesty would like a cozy chat, and commands Don't go, Galen. Cast a spell and turn them into toads. It should be easy; that's what they are.
VALERIAN: Don't go, Galen. Cast a spell and turn them into toads. It should be easy; that's what they are.
TYRIAN: Well, well: still plenty of cheek under those skirts, it seems. Don't worry. I'll be back.
GALEN: Don't worry. I'll be back.
RIDERS: Three horses gallop through the moors and fens of central Urland. Galen is tucked up behind Tyrian. On the distant horizon, the battlements of the King's castle glow in the slanting light of a new day.
GALEN: One of the best things about the water here in Urland is that there's so much of it look at that!
GALEN: Mmm. Good. But not cold enough. Perhaps I could borrow a scarf from his Majesty.
GALEN: I cover the goblet, so. remove, so. and behold: winter in a mug!
GALEN: All right. How many of you have ever seen a table fly?
KING: Enough! That's fine.
GALEN: Wait, it'll rise now.
KING: Don't bother. Not necessary.
KING: Tell me: the landslide it was accomplished this same way?
GALEN: I see. And having rendered such unique service to our kingdom, what would you claim as a reward?
KING: I see. And having rendered such unique service to our kingdom, what would you claim as a reward?
GALEN: Please no payment. I have always found magical practice to be its own reward. I seek only some yet greater Did you ever hear of King Gaiseric? Of course not, you weren't even born. He was my brother, a great King and a valiant man-at-arms. When he ascended to the throne, the dragon was unbridled. No one knew where it might strike next. So he brought forth his broadsword and his spear, assembled a company of his best fighters and went out to do battle. He was never seen again. But his attack provoked the most terrible reprisals: whole villages incinerated, entire crops burned. Death, famine,
KING: Did you ever hear of King Gaiseric? Of course not, you weren't even born. He was my brother, a great King and a valiant man-at-arms. When he ascended to the throne, the dragon was unbridled. No one knew where it might strike next. So he brought forth his broadsword and his spear, assembled a company of his best fighters and went out to do battle. He was never seen again. But his attack provoked the most terrible reprisals: whole villages incinerated, entire crops burned. Death, famine,
KING: ( quietly ) How did you arrogate to yourself the role of savior?
GALEN: I was invited.
KING: Not by me. Did you ever consider the consequences of failure?
GALEN: What failure? What's the matter with you people? You want the dragon back?
KING: Then the beast is dead?
GALEN: Yes, of course. Dead.
KING: We shall see.
DUNGEON: Two guards thrust Galen into a narrow cell and slam the barred door shut. The young sorcerer waits until they're safely out of sight, then takes out his amulet. He ponders it for a doubtful moment. Suddenly a gloved hand darts in and whips it off his neck and out through the bars.
TYRIAN: Thank you.
CORRIDOR: Unseen by Galen, a figure clad in silk and lace skitters down a murky dungeon hallway and peers around a corner. Stealing a look at Galen is the Princess Elspeth, a fey beauty in her early twenties. After a moment, spooked by some imagined noise, she flits away.
DUNGEON: Outside the barred window, a steady rain is falling. Inside, Galen uses a chunk of limestone to inscribe a pentagram on the floor of his cell. He marks runic signs on the window sill and lintel. Then, positioning himself in the center of the mystic symbol, he raises his hands and spreads his There's a long moment when nothing happens. A very long moment. Finally, a thoroughly frustrated Galen leaps to the window and rattles the bars.
GALEN: ( authoritative ) Cubiculum gravis aperat!
GALEN: Open up, dammit! Fenestra gravis aperat! Asser gravis aperat! Salve, magistrum iuvenilum.
VOICE: Salve, magistrum iuvenilum.
ELSPETH: I've studied Latin. Greek, too. Me appelo Elspeth, filia regis.
GALEN: How do you do.
ELSPETH: Please don't think ill of us. My father is a wonderful man, a wise man. The lottery was his idea.
GALEN: I see.
ELSPETH: You don't understand. From the moment it began, the dragon was tame. The kingdom prospered.
GALEN: And only a few had to be sacrificed.
ELSPETH: Yes, that's true. Isn't it better that a few should die that many might Depends on who does the dying.
GALEN: Depends on who does the dying.
ELSPETH: Oh, but we all take our chances. My father is a just man. My name is entered on the lists, along with every other young
GALEN: If you say so.
ELSPETH: If you say so.
GALEN: If you say so.
ELSPETH: What do you mean?
GALEN: ( sighs ) I've participated in every drawing since I came of age.
ELSPETH: I've participated in every drawing since I came of age.
GALEN: It's true. You don't believe me. You think I'm lying. Well I'm not.
ELSPETH: It's true. You don't believe me. You think I'm lying. Well I'm not.
GALEN: I'm sorry. I heard a rumor. Families with money, that sort of thing.
ELSPETH: Don't listen to rumors. They're lies. I have to go now.
GALEN: Wait how long do I have to stay in here?
ELSPETH: Until we know. Not long. Goodbye. Vale. Dormi bene.
LIBRARY: King Casiodorus and Tyrian are huddled over a table piled high with manuscripts and papers. Tyrian clears a spot and sets out a stack of lead bars.
KING: That's enough. Let's not be greedy
KING: Now then: I, Casiodorus Rex do hereby command thou base metal to change thy essence and become gold.
ELSPETH: Not now. Tyrian, remove all but one bar. We'll try it one at a time.
KING: Not now. Tyrian, remove all but one bar. We'll try it one at a time.
ELSPETH: Father: did you know that some families have paid bribes to stay out of the lottery?
KING: Nonsense. By the power of this amulet, justly wielded by my hand in accordance with the laws of Urland, now lead be thou gold.
KING: I'm burned! What devilish thing is Have you ever kept my name off the lottery list?
ELSPETH: Have you ever kept my name off the lottery list?
KING: That'll be all, Tyrian. You may
KING: Now, my dear, what's troubling you?
ELSPETH: Answer my question: am I not exposed to the same risk as every other man's
ELSPETH: ( finally ) Your father loves you very much.
KING: ( finally ) Your father loves you very much.
ELSPETH: ( a wail ) It's true! What have you done to Who fills your head with such ideas?
KING: Who fills your head with such ideas?
DUNGEON: The same tremor shakes the bars in Galen's cell. Puzzled, he rolls off his straw palette and gets to his feet. The tremor dies away. Suddenly a violent shaking hits the cell, bouncing Galen off the walls.
VILLAGE SQUARE: Swanscombe is gripped by the same earthquake. Dodging panicky barnyard animals, Valerian and her father join other frightened villagers in the center of town.
DRAGON COUNTRY: Above the dragon's lair, boulders are shifting and grinding together. Massive chunks of stone break loose and tumble down the incline.
GALEN: The shaking has stopped. Rock dust filters down from the ceiling. Galen picks himself up and stares: the door to his cell is off its hinges and is sagging open. He darts out.
CORRIDOR: Galen dashes along the hallway, rounds a corner and stops. At the other end of the passage is Tyrian.
TYRIAN: You little meddler! It's alive!
COURTYARD: Unruly horses, terrified by the quake, rush blindly around the courtyard. Hostlers try vainly to catch them. Tyrian leans down from an upstairs window.
TYRIAN: Close the main gate! Quick!
TYRIAN: There! Stop him!
THRONE ROOM: Galen gallops into the empty chamber, knocking over the throne and vaulting a table. Hot on his heels are armed soldiers. He kicks the horse again and shoots under an archway.
KITCHEN: The kitchen is already in chaos from the earthquake when Galen charges in on his wild steed. Food, utensils and cooks go flying. He reins in, ducks his head, and squeezes the horse out into a narrow hallway.
HALLWAY: He clatters down the passageway. But here comes a contingent of footmen from the opposite direction. Galen rides them into the walls!
STAIRS: The horse scrabbles up the stairs, Galen tucked low against its neck. On the upper landing he comes face to face with Tyrian and more soldiers.
TYRIAN: Get him! Stab the horse!
LIBRARY: Whinnying and blowing the horse bursts in, a wild-eyed Galen still in the saddle. He finds himself confronting the King and his daughter. Casiodorus grabs Elspeth and retreats into a corner.
KING: Tyrian! Tyrian!
KING: So much for your magic! So much for your sorcery!
BROTHER JACOPUS: Listen to me, my brethren. The moment of our fear is the moment of our triumph. This is a sign from God. Follow me, and our faith will send this creature straight to hell.
GREIL: You call yourselves Christians?
BROTHER JACOPUS: The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Thou makest me to lie down in green pastures. Thy rod and staff they comfort me.
VERMITHRAX: There is a thunderous noise. Part of the mountain is tossed into the air. Up from the depths comes a huge shining wing. Then a neck uncoils and a head appears. It tips down toward the tiny human.
BROTHER JACOPUS: ( firm ) .for Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever amen.
BROTHER JACOPUS: Unclean beast, get thee down! Be thou consumed by the fires that made
MAN: Get away, you little bastard. We've had enough help from you.
WOMAN: This is your doing!
BURLIES: Get him! He's back!
GALEN: Greil help!
GREIL: May the Lord forgive you for what you have done.
VALERIAN'S HOUSE: The roof has burned off, but at least the walls are standing. Valerian is wrestling charred timbers out of the center of the room. She is covered with soot. There is a hammering on the door and Galen barges in. He slams the door behind him and puts his back against it.
GALEN: It's me. Are you hurt?
VALERIAN: Where have you been? Doesn't matter listen: Quick! Make it rain. That'll put the fire out.
GALEN: I can't.
VALERIAN: Then get the animals back. They're all running loose. There's people been hurt. Stop their pain. You can cure them. And we'll need food.
GALEN: I can't do it.
VALERIAN: ( this stops her ) What? Why not?
GALEN: I just can't.
VALERIAN: But you're a sorcerer.
GALEN: I'm no sorcerer. Whatever power I might have had, it's gone.
VALERIAN: It can't be!
GALEN: I know: I'm an imposter. A fraud. A fake. I'm sorry.
VALERIAN: You're sorry?! Listen to that! The damn thing is loose, we're all on fire and you're sorry!
VALERIAN: You didn't have the faintest idea what you were doing, did you? You're a fool and I'm a bigger one for bringing you here.
VALERIAN: I don't want you in this house. Get
TYRIAN: Where is he?
VALERIAN: Not here. I can't help you.
VALERIAN'S HOUSE: Tyrian pushes Valerian aside and steps into the room. Aided by some townfolk, his men proceed to ransack the premises, overturning barrels, sticking their swords through flour sacks, poking through the tumbledown thatch. Valerian's eye falls on Malkin, who has involved himself in the search.
VALERIAN: You too?
MALKIN: ( returning her look ) Damn right.
TYRIAN: As the proud new father of an eligible daughter who was some-how overlooked all these years, it may interest you to know that the King has called for a new lottery.
SIMON: But it's months til the solstice.
TYRIAN: In view of what's happened, we all know what's required.
SIMON: I've never taken part in your cursed lottery, and I'll have nothing to do with it now.
TYRIAN: You were very clever. But she'll take part, like all the rest. No
HENCHMAN: Nothing. If he was here, he's gone
SIMON: All right. I know what you want. How Are you offering me a bribe?
TYRIAN: Are you offering me a bribe?
SIMON: Don't waste your time. You could never afford it. Smith have you ever forged a
TYRIAN: Don't waste your time. You could never afford it. Smith have you ever forged a
GALEN: Smith have you ever forged a
WEAPONS: Simon is going through a cabinet, tossing out hoes, rakes, sickles, scythes, plow blades, and a knife or two. Galen examines them doubtfully. Now Simon produces an armload of swords. Galen is impressed; he looks them over carefully, testing and rejecting them in turn.
GALEN: These are your sharpest?
SIMON: Even Tyrian carries one of these.
GALEN: It's sharp but it's not sharp
VALERIAN: Not sharp enough for what?
GALEN: For what I'm going to do with it.
VALERIAN: Nothing's that sharp.
SIMON: The best I ever made.
VALERIAN: It's beautiful.
SIMON: Don't do that! Girl-child, when you were born I knew I had to do something, so I set about the task of fashioning an extraordinary weapon: I had the skill to make it but not the nerve to use it.
VALERIAN: I'm thankful for that. No man should choose a senseless If it's me you're worried about, don't. So my name has been entered, what of it? There are hundreds of girls. My name just won't be drawn. I know it won't. Valerian, this isn't just for your
VALERIAN: If it's me you're worried about, don't. So my name has been entered, what of it? There are hundreds of girls. My name just won't be drawn. I know it won't. Valerian, this isn't just for your
GALEN: Valerian, this isn't just for your
SWORD: Big flat oak leaves are gliding along the current. Very slowly, they go by the sword, some of them very close. Finally, one of them floats against the leading edge of the blade and without a ripple is cleft in two. Simon gives Galen a significant look.
VALERIAN: I don't care. It doesn't matter. What you want to kill isn't flesh and blood.
SIMON: Oh, it'll bleed, all right.
VALERIAN: How do you know? No one's so much as even scratched it.
GALEN: I'll need the amulet.
VALERIAN: ( pointing ) Look at her. The Princess.
GALEN: I know. We've met. People of Urland: whereas the peace of the kingdom has been disrupted by the mischief of an interloper; and whereas this interloper being fled; now therefore, his majesty the King hereby proclaims the sum of thirty ducats to be paid to anyone producing the miscreant Galen Bradwardyn, fraud enchanter, to our satisfaction.
HORSRIK: ( reading ) People of Urland: whereas the peace of the kingdom has been disrupted by the mischief of an interloper; and whereas this interloper being fled; now therefore, his majesty the King hereby proclaims the sum of thirty ducats to be paid to anyone producing the miscreant Galen Bradwardyn, fraud enchanter, to our satisfaction.
CROWD: Stir the tiles! Stir the tiles!
CROWD: Bare the arm! Bare the arm!
CROWD: Draw the name! Draw the name!
HORSRIK: Now, my countrymen, hear me: behold, for I am chosen. I shall die that many may live. I shall lay down my life for family and fellows. I shall go to my grave for the love of our King and his wise policy. And my name is
CROWD: The name! The name!
KING: Read the name.
HORSRIK: ( mastering himself ) The name is: Princess Elspeth Ulfilas, filia regis.
KING: That's not the name. It's been
VALERIAN: There's no mistake! The name's been chosen let it stand!
KING: No, the good Horsrik has misspoke In fairness to this individual, whose name I can't make out, we'll destroy this tile.
VALERIAN: No! What better name than your own kin? At last we see justice done!
KING: Silence! We will have a new choosing. I will draw the name myself.
CROWD: Let it stand! Let it stand!
ELSPETH: The name is as you heard it and as Horsrik read it: Elspeth.
KING: The lottery is invalid. Another and another. What treachery is this?
ELSPETH: Hear me, good people! It is true, that my name appears on many of the lots. This does not falsify the drawing, it certifies it! I have learned that my name has been kept from jeopardy in all the drawings in the past. So I have put my name among the rest many times once for each risk that, over the years, you took and I did not.
THRONE ROOM: Galen pokes his head in: the room is empty. He scurries over to a chest, flings it open and starts rummaging. Finding nothing he moves on to a cabinet. He breaks the lock and pries it open. Again, nothing.
CASTLE CORRIDOR: Galen can hear the voices in the courtyard as he rushes down a hall. Suddenly he stops short. There in front of him is a guard leaning out a window to watch the proceedings. Galen hovers on the verge of panic as the guard abruptly moves. But the man is only headed for another window and a better view. Galen manages to fall into step an arm's length behind him and slip by without a sound.
LIBRARY: Galen enters the library, his enormous shadow dancing crazily on the torchlit walls. Hurrying through, his attention is drawn to some open books on a table. Closer inspection reveals magical writings and symbols. Galen paws over everything, suddenly aware that he must be close to the amulet. But where is it?
COURTYARD: As the crowd disperses Valerian watches Elspeth walk back in the castle, lofty and composed. She looks for Galen and discovers he has gone.
LIBRARY: By now, the room is in total disarray. Galen has opened all the chests and trunks and knocked half the books from the shelves. No amulet. He's feverishly working on a locked drawer when a voice interrupts him.
KING: Don't go to all that trouble.
GALEN: I'm unarmed. If you want a fight, at least give me a weapon.
TYRIAN: ( pushing by the King ) I think not!
KING: Stop! Don't harm him. And you don't run away. please.
KING: ( shaky ) I've always had the greatest admiration for the black arts. You chaps with your mysterious spells. I didn't think it would be necessary, you see. Vermithrax is an old dragon. And that, I thought, was the beauty of my plan buying time. We'd wait her out. I'd live to see the end of ( firm ) That's still going to happen.
TYRIAN: He shall have it. It's my daughter. Save her, I beg
KING: He shall have it. It's my daughter. Save her, I beg
GREIL: Holy of holies he did not die in vain. Can you hear me, brothers?
MALKIN: ( gently ) We hear you, Greil.
GREIL: Well and good, but I'm Greil no longer. Call me Gregorius, after the Bishop of Rome.
GREIL: I saw him die. Like Our Lord Jesus on the cross he was, scourged by evil. But he showed no fear. Such is the power of the Holy Ghost.
BLACKSMITH SHOP: Galen lurks in the shadows of Simon's metal shop looking out on the square where Greil is holding forth.
GREIL: Of what avail is magic? The old gods died with our daughters. From whence comest my help? My help comest from the Lord!
SIMON: Good and hot.
GALEN: Don't bother. That's not the kind of fire we need.
GALEN: Nunc, per Potestatem Hermeticum ex flammis, ferrum sangrinarium!
SIMON: An edge like no other on this earth.
GALEN: Well done, Simon. Thank you.
SIMON: ( grave ) I'll say goodbye to Valerian for you. I'm sorry she's not here, but you know how she is.
GALEN: I understand.
SIMON: Fare thee well.
VALERIAN: It's as if the vision is speaking to him, but it's not. He spins around and sees her standing there, fully clothed, and possessed of a brisk and businesslike air.
VALERIAN: She throws down a shield. It's remarkable in its construction overlapping layers of iridescent dragon scales have been ingeniously fastened to a leather-clad frame.
VALERIAN: It's a shield. I made it. Might keep the fire off you. Might not. You know, you're an idiot. You're going to die tonight. You'll be ripped limb from limb. This is the last time I'll ever speak to you.
GALEN: Thank you.
VALERIAN: ( rushing ) Another thing. That thing isn't alone up there. There's little ones. Young, I think. I don't know how many.
GALEN: Hatchlings. They'll have to be killed too. Anything else?
VALERIAN: ( tiny voice ) You're in love, aren't you?
GALEN: ( slowly nodding ) That's all right. I understand. She's very beautiful, very brave.
VALERIAN: That's all right. I understand. She's very beautiful, very brave.
GALEN: Who is? What do you mean?
VALERIAN: Your Princess. But I don't care. It doesn't change the way I feel. Listen to me, Galen Bradwardyn, sorcerer's apprentice; you're going to be dead, the dragon will be worse than ever, there will be more lotteries, and I'm not a boy any And you'll be eligible because
GALEN: And you'll be eligible because
VALERIAN: Because I'm still a virgin, and I want you to do something about it.
GALEN: I am in love. But not with the
HORSRIK: Now be it known throughout the kingdom, that the Princess, having been chosen by a deed of fortune and
HORSRIK: No fire, I beg you.
GALEN: Be gone! I declare these proceedings duly
HORSRIK: ( over his shoulder ) I declare these proceedings duly
TYRIAN: I knew I'd find you here. Well, I'm not as sentimental as some. The kingdom, every one of us, need this sacrifice. If you intend to interfere, you'll have to kill me.
GALEN: I've got plenty of reasons to kill you that have nothing to do with this sacrifice.
TYRIAN: Most impressive. Can you use it?
ELSPETH: Let it be! Please! Tyrian is right it's our only hope!
ELSPETH: Tyrian both of you run! Flee! It's coming!
TYRIAN: In a trice! This is no swords-man.
GALEN: Run! Get out of here! No! Stop! What are you doing?
GALEN: No! Stop! What are you doing?
TYRIAN: You've failed, my friend, and I thank the gods for it. Come out from behind that post.
DRAGON'S LAIR: Smoke swirls at the mouth of the cave as Galen enters, holding his sword before him, lighting his way with its faint blue The floor of the cave as it winds down into the mountain is paved first with rock, then with dragon scales, then with bones. With each footfall, clusters of mysterious insects scuttle away. Galen pauses to mop his brow; it's getting hot. A sound echoes up from the depths, a grinding sound like the gnashing of teeth, followed by hissing and squealing. Galen grips his sword tighter and pushes on. Suddenly he stoops and picks up an embroidered slipper: Elspeth's. The grinding sounds are louder. He hurries forward and rounds a corner. He stops and gags.
GALEN: The floor of the cave as it winds down into the mountain is paved first with rock, then with dragon scales, then with bones. With each footfall, clusters of mysterious insects scuttle away. Galen pauses to mop his brow; it's getting hot. A sound echoes up from the depths, a grinding sound like the gnashing of teeth, followed by hissing and squealing. Galen grips his sword tighter and pushes on. Suddenly he stoops and picks up an embroidered slipper: Elspeth's. The grinding sounds are louder. He hurries forward and rounds a corner. He stops and gags.
BASILISKS: Two disgusting little reptiles like scaly raccoons are perched on the corpse of Princess Elspeth Ulfilas, feeding contentiously on choice bits of the royal flesh. Galen groans: he lashes out and his sword beheads one of the tiny monsters. The other one buzzes its half-formed winglets and hisses a hot stream of air. Galen brings down the sword and slices it in half. Eyes riveted on Elspeth's remains, he edges around the carnage and backs away. Hissss! there's a third one, lurking in the shadows, munching on something; it might be a hand. Galen shrieks and jumps away. The little creature comes at him and clamps its jaws on his leg. Galen stabs at it repeatedly. Finally it lets go, and flails and flops across the bloody floor, ululating its death agony. As the creature's last mewlings echo down through the cavern, the ground quivers. Bits of stone fall from the ceiling.
VERMITHRAX: He's halfway across when the earth rumbles and the stepping stones teeter beneath his feet. A fiery wave washes over his legs, leaving his boots smoking. Another tremor knocks Galen to his knees. As he scrabbles to pick up his sword and shield, the great head of Vermithrax rises up out of the depths on its long neck. It gazes at him through huge pale eyes under armored lids. A tongue flicks out and runs around its lipless mouth. The head sways from side to side. The mouth hinges open, the nostril-like igniters come on and touch off the jet of gas squeezed up out of its innards. A roaring tube of flame engulfs Galen. He crouches behind his dragon scale shield which deflects the fire just enough to save his life. The dragon pauses to take a breath. Galen springs to his feet, and bounds back the way he came, his skin and clothing singed. Flames lick at his back as the dragon lets fly with a second burst.
TUNNEL: Coughing and weeping, Galen staggers up through the tunnel, nearly tripping over the body of one of the baby dragons. A few seconds later, Vermithrax follows, squirming and clawing its way upward. When it reaches its dead offspring it surveys the scene with expressionless eyes. Bringing its head low, it sniffs and nudges at the lifeless little ones.
AMBUSH: At that moment Galen leaps out from behind a niche in the tunnel wall and lunges forward. Striking sparks, the point of his sword slides across the dragon's plated cheek and stabs deep between the scales of its heavy neck. There is an unearthly shriek and the creature flicks its head back and upward. Galen goes sprawling and finds himself holding half a sword. The rest is buried in the beast's neck, and Vermithrax doesn't like it. It flings its head this way and that, knocking rocks loose from the ceiling. Its movements cause the ground to quake. As boulders tumble around him, Galen drops to the floor under his shield. Dragon flame reaches through the cascading debris and washes over him.
DAWN: Valerian roams the rock-strewn slope not far from the dragon's lair. Presently she comes upon a once-familiar object the fire shield. Half the scales are gone, the rest are charred and curling. Grimly, she moves on. A few paces away she picks up the blunted sword. She scans the rocks and finally sees what she's looking for.
GALEN: He's lying face down behind a boulder, his clothes charred, patches of skin scorched. He looks dead. Valerian rolls him onto his back. She gasps: the eyes are open, regarding her.
GALEN: Still alive.
HOUSE: In the adjoining house Valerian tends Galen's wounds. He's propped up on a palette enduring the application of poultices.
VALERIAN: You know what we have to do. We have to leave Urland.
VALERIAN: Not because of what happened. I brought you here it didn't work now I'm taking you away. Do you You said you loved me. Is it true? If it is, it's the only good we've done. Let's not lose that too.
SIMON: She's right. What kind of a life could you have here? It's too late for me, but you're young enough. You know what I think? Magic is dying out, fading from the world. But that makes me happy. That means the dragon will be dying too.
PACKING: Valerian packs her belongings into a rucksack. The last item in is her blue frock, carefully rolled. Beside her, Galen dons clean traveling clothes. He stiffly crosses the room and drags his pack out of the corner. He sorts through the effects, and amidst the clothing and supplies discovers the leather pouch containing Ulrich's remains. He contemplates
VALERIAN: What's that?
GALEN: Nothing. I was just thinking poor
VALERIAN: How's your leg?
GALEN: Hurts. That thing was small, but its teeth were sharp.
VALERIAN: At least you killed it. You got all the young.
GALEN: But the big one's alive. Somewhere down in that burning lake.
VALERIAN: Don't think about it. You had your fight, and you're still here. That's more than anyone else can say. Let's think about what lies ahead.
GALEN: Galen has come to a halt in the middle of the path. He's staring into the middle distance with a sudden inspiration bubbling in his brain. He flings off his sack, drops to his knees and tears through the contents. Valerian comes back, baffled. Galen's gear is strewn all over the trail.
VALERIAN: What are you doing?
GALEN: You old trickster! The burning water! The lake of fire!
VALERIAN: Galen, what are you saying?
GALEN: He had it planned. He knew this was going to happen.
VALERIAN: Who did? What happened?
GALEN: We've got to go back, I want to talk to him! Where are you going?
VALERIAN: Where are you going?
GREIL: The Church is mother to us all. Not just one lonely orphan who has lost his way, not just a few, but all of us that believeth in Him. When enough voices come together in prayer, He shall hear, we shall live and the beast shall die.
VALERIAN: Galen, stop! Please, I beg you!
VALERIAN: Stop! I won't let you kill yourself.
GALEN: He couldn't walk he knew he couldn't make the journey. So he had us make the journey for him! Don't you see?
VALERIAN: ( pursuing )
VALERIAN: All right, all right. You're going in there, I'm going too.
GALEN: ( brought up short ) What? Why? No you're not, this is my job. Absolutely not.
VALERIAN: I'm not afraid. And you're not going to stop me. After all I've been a man longer than you have.
UNDERGROUND: Running footsteps resound in the steamy passageway and Galen comes around the corner holding his torch high to light the way. Valerian stumbles after him. He grabs her hand.
GALEN: Stay close.
VALERIAN: What's that?
GALEN: Never mind. Come on.
GALEN: All right. Wait here. Galen? Galen? Where are you?
VALERIAN: Galen? Galen? Where are you?
GALEN: Ex favilla, vita nova!
OUTSIDE: Thoroughly bewildered, Valerian stumbles out into daylight. She wanders a few yards down the slope and collapses against the stake. Something is strange: it's getting dark. Squinting up at the sun, she frowns in puzzlement, then gapes at what is happening.
ECLIPSE: Slowly and ponderously the black disk of the moon slides over the face of the sun, plunging the world into crepuscular GRANGE HALL - DAY The congregation is confused and frightened by the sudden The faithful bow their heads and join in. Simon as well.
GREIL: Be calm. He watcheth over us! And this is His sign! Let us pray! Our Father who art in heaven.
GALEN: Ulrich! Magister! Over here! I can see you! Over here!
ULRICH: ( looks at him ) Not so loud. I'm not deaf, you know.
ULRICH: Sic redit magus ex terra mortis.
GALEN: Wonder of wonders you're back! I thank the powers that made me!
ULRICH: Glad to see you, too. You didn't bring along anything to eat, by any No? Oh well, no time anyway.
GALEN: No? Oh well, no time anyway.
ULRICH: No? Oh well, no time anyway.
OUTSIDE: Valerian is standing in the unearthly twilight, anxiously peering into the mouth of the lair. Suddenly she is hit from behind by a gust of wind. She does not turn to see the enormous Vermithrax alighting silently behind her.
ULRICH: Come along. There's much to be done.
GALEN: Wait, I have something to tell you.
ULRICH: It can wait.
GALEN: No it can't. Listen: I thought I was a sorcerer but I wasn't. I thought I had power but I didn't. I thought I was you but I'm not.
ULRICH: Well said. Now hurry.
VALERIAN: Time seems to have come to a stop. Overhead, the moon is locked in front of the sun. At the lair, Valerian stands frozen as the dragon leans over her. The great head sways from side to side. The jaws hinge open. Suddenly, Valerian recovers herself and makes a run for it, leaping and scrabbling over the rocks. A plume of flame licks at her heels. She sees a protective crevice and heads for it, but a winged claw drops to block her way. She changes direction and is cut off again. Cat and mouse.
VERMITHRAX: The pale yellow eyes stare implacably down at the hopeless victim. The igniter jets come on, then off, as the beast suddenly stiffens. The head rotates, almost as if catching a new scent. Finally the eyes focus on the entrance to the There is the sorcerer, leaning on Galen, coolly regarding the creature. The old man's expression hardens.
ULRICH: There is the sorcerer, leaning on Galen, coolly regarding the creature. The old man's expression hardens.
ULRICH: Draco draconis.
VALERIAN: Galen runs to her. They embrace. When they look up, Ulrich is at their side.
ULRICH: Where's my amulet? Give it to me, Be quick! Come close to me.
ULRICH: Be quick! Come close to me.
ULRICH: Come close to me.
VORTEX: All at once the glow brightens, and in another instant the world spins off into a blur, setting all three afloat in a timeless netherworld. Valerian and Galen cling to each other in terror.
ULRICH: Don't be afraid. You have served me with great courage. Now you must show me you have even more.
GALEN: The voices seem to be coming from a huge distance. Starlike gleams whiz by, and fleeting glimpses of half-recognizable faces and forms. The wizard's eyes are like glittering crystals. Tiny motes and planetoids dance in the hairs of his beard. He seems wreathed in luminescence.
ULRICH: You must destroy the amulet, and me along with it.
GALEN: You brought me from the flames, you must send me back.
ULRICH: You brought me from the flames, you must send me back.
GALEN: I can't.
ULRICH: When the time comes, you'll understand. Here.
MOUNTAIN TOP: Abruptly, the vortex is gone and they find themselves atop a rocky crag overlooking the eclipse-darkened fields and farms of Urland. Galen glances at his surroundings and stares at the amulet, full of awe.
ULRICH: I know what you're thinking. You have learned much and done well. Don't worry, you won't need it any Make haste, brother.
GREIL: Make haste, brother.
GREIL: Now be thou baptized in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. May the Lord our God light our way.
MOUNTAIN TOP: Galen and Valerian peer out from behind a boulder and watch Ulrich hobble perilously close to the edge of the cliff. The old man spreads wide his arms and tilts his head back.
ULRICH: Nimbus! Tempestas! Fulmen!
VALERIAN: Here. Do as he said. Smash it.
GALEN: Not if it means killing him.
ULRICH: He resolutely waits as the dragon banks against the clouds and starts another pass. Again, the sorcerer summons lightning bolts. But the dragon keeps coming; this time a talon splits the old man's cape.
VALERIAN: You heard what he said.
GALEN: No! You can't!
ULRICH: Galen and Valerian are horrified to see the dragon circling upward with the sorcerer writhing in agony in its grip. As the monstrous thing flies high over them, they can hear Ulrich's faint screams.
DEATH: Now Galen understands. He seizes the granite block from Valerian and raises it with both hands over his head. He takes a final look at the amulet, glowing at his feet, then brings the rock down with all his might. There is a blinding flash as it shatters into a million fragments. Far above there is another blinding flash as Ulrich's earthly body explodes against the belly of the beast. The darkened sky lights up as huge gouts of flame spew forth from the dragon's gut. Wings fluttering uselessly, this reptilian torch plummets to the ground.
LAKE: Below, a stock pond nestled in the foothill pastures. Trailing a wake of flame, Vermithrax plunges like a comet into the water. There is a stupendous splash and eruption of steam.
ECLIPSE: Behind a tattered wrack of cloud, the moon slowly uncovers a pale sun.
GREIL: Let us pray.
GREIL: We thank thee, Lord, for this divine deliverance. Verily is thy presence amongst us, fully manifest in this, thy great work.
GREIL: Arise, children of the Lord and forsake evermore the pagan mysteries. Rejoice in the true power of the Christian God!
THE KING: With the crack of a whip and the clatter of hooves, the royal coach pulls up to the shore of the lake. A door creaks open and King Casiodorus totters out. His face is puffy, his eyes are red. He slogs through the mud to the head of the dragon and commences hacking at it with a ceremonial sword. Horsrik steps out of the coach and draws himself up.
HORSRIK: ( loud ) All hail Casiodorus Rex Dragon
HORSRIK: ( nodding ) Hail and praise be!
VALERIAN: You want to rest?
GALEN: No. I'm fine.
VALERIAN: You miss Ulricn.
GALEN: And the amulet.
VALERIAN: And the amulet.
GALEN: That too.
VALERIAN: Not me. I'm glad it's gone. I'm glad you did what you did. You may not be a sorcerer, Galen, but I love you anyway. I don't regret anything that happened. I just wish
GALEN: ( sighs ) that we had a horse.
VALERIAN: ( sighs ) that we had a horse.
VALERIAN: What is this?
GALEN: A horse.
VALERIAN: Did you.!?
GALEN: No. It must have been wandering loose. Or wild.
VALERIAN: Wait a minute. I just wished for a horse and here it is.
GALEN: You don't want to wish it gone, do
THE END: Writers : Hal Barwood Matthew Robbins
