STEPHANIE: There is no friction, with proper diction. Good sounds abound, when the mouth is round. She catches herself on the last word, a hint of "Missouri twang" slipping through.
STEPHANIE: Yawn. She slips off her nightgown and lumbers into the steaming shower.
STEPHANIE: Well, you're a little cutie.
STEPHANIE: Hey! Slow down! The Van roars past. She pets the Kitten. It PURRS and licks Stephanie's face. She sets it down.
STEPHANIE: Go on home. Shoo now! She heads for the Bank. The kitten follows. She turns back, INT. BANK OF CALIFORNIA DAY Stephanie site at her desk, across from a young MEXICAN COUPLE. She studies their mortgage. application.
STEPHANIE: INT. BANK OF CALIFORNIA DAY Stephanie site at her desk, across from a young MEXICAN COUPLE. She studies their mortgage. application.
MEXICAN MAN: We keep getting the same thing. Because I'm not employed by an American company, they won't take my application until they get my solvency statement. And the Mexican Treasury Department says that's going to take at least four more MEXICAN WOMAN And the house will be gone by then.
MEXICAN WOMAN: And the house will be gone by then.
STEPHANIE: It says, here your employed by That's right.
MEXICAN: That's right.
STEPHANIE: Isn't Pemex a subsidiary of Union a MEXICAN MAN
STEPHANIE: So technically, your employer is an American company. I think we can make this work. I'll call you this afternoon and let you know. The happy couple shake Stephanie's hand and exit. ELLEN, Stephanie's pretty, twenty two year old, roommate, flops down into the seat across from her.
ELLEN: I need clarification on the shoe First of all you know you've got the only perfect pair of black dress shoes in L.A. So was that a definite, irrevocable, "no way" or t just a rather not at this time, "no It's an absolutely, positively, forget about the shoes already, "no way". They're my only good pair and I need them in good shape for What's Up?
STEPHANIE: First of all you know you've got the only perfect pair of black dress shoes in L.A. So was that a definite, irrevocable, "no way" or t just a rather not at this time, "no It's an absolutely, positively, forget about the shoes already, "no way". They're my only good pair and I need them in good shape for What's Up?
ELLEN: First of all you know you've got the only perfect pair of black dress shoes in L.A. So was that a definite, irrevocable, "no way" or t just a rather not at this time, "no It's an absolutely, positively, forget about the shoes already, "no way". They're my only good pair and I need them in good shape for What's Up?
STEPHANIE: It's an absolutely, positively, forget about the shoes already, "no way". They're my only good pair and I need them in good shape for What's Up?
ELLEN: What's Up?
STEPHANIE: Dinner with Ray's parents. Ellen picks up a desktop photo: A shot of Stephanie and her handsome boyfriend, Ray, locked in an embrace, standing in the spray of a waterfall.
ELLEN: Ray's got a nice butt. Really tight
STEPHANIE: 1 I know. Thanks.
ELLEN: He's a keeper. But I told you about his mom, she's another story. I used to waitress at her country club, and with her, it's all about what private school you went to and who you know. You still up for that promotion? That would help. Stephanie looks longingly to.
STEPHANIE: I'm not putting on a show. She'll either accept me for who I am or Are you reading self help books The Kitten peers out through Stephanie's partially opened desk drawer.
ELLEN: Are you reading self help books The Kitten peers out through Stephanie's partially opened desk drawer.
ELLEN: Hello there! Ellen reaches for the Kitty but Stephanie waves her off.
STEPHANIE: Shhhl I can't let my boss see Stephanie glances to her manager, MR. JACKS, a heavyset man sitting behind a large desk.
ELLEN: What about the shoes?
STEPHANIE: I told you. No. Now beat it.
STEPHANIE: Uh Oh. You better bring the kitty home for me.
ELLEN: Sure. If I can take the shoes.
STEPHANIE: I told you, no. Mr. Jacks sneezes again, his eyes water. He turns to his
MR. JACKS: Has someone brought a damned animal into my bank?! Mr. Jacks looks about the Bank, his twitching nose leading him toward Stephanie's desk.
STEPHANIE: Okay, fine! Take the shoes!
ELLEN: Just don't expect me to take care of it. This catches Mr. Jack's Attention. He turns to the ladies, wondering what they're talking about. Stephanie takes Ellen's hand and vigorously shakes it goodbye.
STEPHANIE: Of course not. I'll take care of everything. And thanks for choosing Bank of California. Ellen plays along.
T: Okay. Then I'll see you later. I mean- whenever the next time I'm in the bank. You know for a loan.
ELLEN: Okay. Then I'll see you later. I mean- whenever the next time I'm in the bank. You know for a loan.
OR: As Ellen passes, Mr. Jacks sneezes again, harder.
STEPHANIE: As Ellen passes, Mr. Jacks sneezes again, harder.
MR. JACKS: Someone has definitely brought an animal in here. He eyes Ellen suspiciously as she exits.
STEPHANIE: I don't see any cats. Or any MR. JACKS Hope to hell, not.
MR. JACKS: Hope to hell, not.
STEPHANIE: By the way, I put the paperwork for the Mcpherson loan on your desk.
MR. JACKS: That big corporate loan I've been trying to set up? It's just preliminary but
STEPHANIE: That big corporate loan I've been trying to set up? It's just preliminary but
MR. JACKS: Oh, right. I'll look it over when I get the chance.
STEPHANIE: Mr. Jacks, I was wondering it you had made any decision regarding the Assistant Manager's position yet?
MR. JACKS: I'm still deciding. Right now it's between Stu and yourself.
STEPHANIE: Stu? The trainee? Stephanie turns to see Stu, the balding loan officer who sits at his desk, watching, trying to figure out what Jacks is saying to her.
MR. JACKS: I know he's new but he's also quite aggressive and we like that. Don't get me wrong, you're well liked here, but we're also looking for someone who's not afraid to crunch the numbers and make the tough Mr. Jacks, I feel that I'm perfectly capable of
STEPHANIE: Mr. Jacks, I feel that I'm perfectly capable of
MR. JACKS: I'll let you know as soon as,I decide. In the meantime, take him through our loan qualifying procedures. just in case.
STEPHANIE: Oh. okay.
MR JACKS: And would you mind taking your lunch now?
STEPHANIE: MR. JACKS And on your way back, maybe you could bring me a turkey club? Stu overhears them as he passes by.
MR. JACKS: And on your way back, maybe you could bring me a turkey club? Stu overhears them as he passes by.
STU: Turkey club. Excellent choice, J.J. Then to Stephanie:
STU: Mind picking one up for me?
STEPHANIE: No problem. Jacks heads back toward his desk. Stephanie grabs her purse and keys and as she heads out, Stu calls after her:
STU: On toasted rye! And spicy mustard! Stephanie doesn't like fetching lunch for the trainee but hides her displeasure.
STEPHANIE: EXT. UCLA - WESTWOOD CAMPUS - DAY Stephanie enters the Ivy-covered red bricked Department of Psychology Building.
RAY: The conscious mind abhors uncertainty. It seeks a pattern or reason for everything. When we can't find that pattern or reason, we sometimes ascribe it's cause to the world of the supernatural. The spiritual world is created by the human mind to conveniently explain everything we can't. So when does a belief in the supernatural cross into the field of abnormal behavior? Where do you, the Psychologist, come in? When these beliefs negatively affect our patients activities of daily living. Their jobs, their friends, their sense of well being The class bell RINGS.
RAY: Tomorrow we'll be covering the clinical manifestations of psychosis. You'll find it all t referenced in the text.
RAY: How're things at the bank? How's that new position looking?
STEPHANIE: I don't know.
RAY: Really? You sounded so sure.
STEPHANIE: Well, now there's this new guy. they're considering him too. Ray sees how bummed out she is. He moves close, taking her in his arms.
RAY: That job needs somebody with your experience. They know that. Stephanie nods.
STEPHANIE: Oh, I've got something for you. She rummages through her purse and hands Ray an envelope. He removes a coin. An old nickle.
RAY: A 1925 Indian head! Hey, good find. Where'd you get it?
STEPHANIE: One of the tellers found it for me. Ray puts the coin back into the envelope and tucks it into his pocket.
RAY: I'd better get back to work. She quickly gathers her things. Ray returns to grading his student's exams. The telephone RINGS. Ray hits the Doctor Dalton. It's the voice of an older woman, TRUDY.
STEPHANIE: I'd better get back to work. She quickly gathers her things. Ray returns to grading his student's exams. The telephone RINGS. Ray hits the Doctor Dalton. It's the voice of an older woman, TRUDY.
RAY: Hi Mom, can you hold on a sec? He turns from the phone, whispering to Stephanie:
RAY: I'll call you tonight. She kisses Ray and exits.
RAY'S VOICE: Nothing much. Just had lunch with Stephanie. And trying to get these midterms graded She halts as she hears her name mentioned on Ray's speakerphone. She moves closer to Ray's office to eavesdrop:
TRUDY'S VOICE: Stephanie? The one from the farm?
RAY'S VOICE: You know who she is. She's coming over for dinner tomorrow night to meet you and dad.
TRUDY'S VOICE: Ray, I'm sure she's sweet, but she doesn't sound.
RAY'S VOICE: TRUDY'S VOICE I mean she's just a teller at some bank right? Raymond there's a reason that your father and I raised you in a certain way. We have expectations.
TRUDY'S VOICE: I mean she's just a teller at some bank right? Raymond there's a reason that your father and I raised you in a certain way. We have expectations.
RAY'S VOICE: Please, mom, not this again
TRUDY'S VOICE: I heard that Julie Kulick is looking for someone to play tennis with. You know she graduated Yale law with honors. I'm told she's quite a successful attorney now. I gave you her number but her mother says you never called.
RAY'S VOICE: Because I'm with Stephanie. I'm not looking for anybody else.
TRUDY'S VOICE: Would it kill you to
RAY'S VOICE: Mom. I have to go. See you tomorrow night. Okay? Bye. A downhearted Stephanie quietly exits.
STU: ( quietly to Mr. Jacks ) She messed up my order. Stephanie heard that.
STEPHANIE: No I didn't, Stu.
STU: Steph, I said "no mayo".
STEPHANIE: You never said that. Stu rolls his eyes to Mr. Jacks. Stephanie caught Stu's look, but what can she do? She INT. BANK OF CALIFORNIA - LATER Stephanie sits at her desk, entering data into her computer. She glances across the bank to see Stu and Mr. Jacks emerging from the break room. Stu is about to return to his desk when he remembers something: he's got two tickets to a Dodger game that he can't use. Mr. Jacks happily accepts the tickets. Stephanie looks to the vacant office of the Assistant Manager. She can feel her promotion slipping away.
MRS. GANUSH: ( Hungarian accent ) Will you help me?
STEPHANIE: Of course. What can I do for you? Mrs. Ganush coughs up phlegm and spits it into a linen handkerchief, which she tucks back into her puree. She hands Stephanie a bunch of crumpled papers. Stephanie reviews them.
STEPHANIE: Mrs. "Ganush"? The old woman nods.
STEPHANIE: This is a delinquency notice. it says that the payment on your loan was due a number of months ago. And this other document. is a court order for repossession. The bank is informing you of their intent to repossess-your property at 325 Brandon street, tomorrow.,
MRS. GANUSH: The trucks are there now. The men are packing all my things. Private things. Please, make them stop. This is my home for twenty years. And I make every payment until the sickness took my eye. Mrs. Ganush turns her head to reveal a milky white eye. Stephanie hides her revulsion.
STEPHANIE: Well. do you have the payment with you now?
MRS. GANUSH: I hope to get it soon. I just need a little more time.
STEPHANIE: I don't think my manager is going to extend you anymore credit. I'd like to help but.
MRS. GANUSH: Please. Won't you try?
STEPHANIE: Okay. Wait here. Stephanie stands and moves off. The Old Woman picks through a bowl of hard candies on Stephanie's desk. Stephanie stands before Mr. Jacks. He acknowledges her without looking up from his work.
1B: MR. JACKS What's up?
MR. JACKS: What's up?
STEPHANIE: I've got an elderly woman asking for an extension on her mortgage payment.. They're in the process of repossessing her home. She's on a fixed income and she's had some medical problems. I was wondering if we could give her a break. Stephanie hands Mr. Jacks the loan file. He puts on his bifocals, studies it. Stephanie glances over her shoulder.
MR. JACKS: Apparently, we've already granted her two extensions. And you know on this type of foreclosure, the bank makes a sizable amount in He hands her back the file.
STEPHANIE: It would mean I'd have to throw her out of her house.
MR. JACKS: Tough decision. Your call. He leans back in his overstuffed leather chair and studies her. Stephanie glances to the vacant office of the Assistant Manager. The large oak desk. The thick carpet. She sees a calculating Stu Rubin eyeing her from his I'll take care of it. Stephanie returns to her desk.
STEPHANIE: I'll take care of it. Stephanie returns to her desk.
STEPHANIE: Mrs. Ganush, another extension on the loan is out of the question.
MRS. GANUSH: I'm sorry.
STEPHANIE: I'm sorry.
MRS. GANUSH: No. Please, it's my home. I'm begging you.
STEPHANIE: I tried to talk my boss into it but he just wouldn't approve.
MRS. GANUSH: But where will I live?
STEPHANIE: Mrs. Ganush, you've given your granddaughter as a reference. It says here, she lives nearby. Wouldn't you be better off living with her?
MRS. GANUSH: I would not burden her.
STEPHANIE: Okay well, there's several fine "assisted living" facilities for the elderly.
MRS GANUSH: A nursing home? No. I will never live in one of those places1
STEPHANIE: Well, of course, that's your MRS. GANUSH It's yours.
MRS. GANUSH: It's yours.
STEPHANIE: I'm sorry there's nothing I can do. Mrs. Ganush begins to sob.
MRS. GANUSH: I am proud woman, Miss Brown, and never have I begged for anything. But I will beg for you now. This one time. I humble myself before That isn't necessary, please. Let's not make this personal. It's just the bank's policy. I'm really sorry Mrs. Ganush. Stephanie takes the loan documents and places them neatly into a manila folder. she glances up but Mrs. Ganush is gone.. Stephanie turns in her chair and is startled to see the old woman, kneeling before her. She clutches Stephanie's leg with her gnarled hands.
STEPHANIE: That isn't necessary, please. Let's not make this personal. It's just the bank's policy. I'm really sorry Mrs. Ganush. Stephanie takes the loan documents and places them neatly into a manila folder. she glances up but Mrs. Ganush is gone.. Stephanie turns in her chair and is startled to see the old woman, kneeling before her. She clutches Stephanie's leg with her gnarled hands.
MRS. GANUSH: Have mercy on me. Stephanie stands, tries to pull free, but the old woman will not release her leg.
STEPHANIE: Please, let go. Customers turn to look. Mr. Jacks glances up from his desk.
MR. JACKS: What the hell?
MRS. GANUSH: I, Sylvia Ganush, beg. On my mother's grave, I beg you.
STEPHANIE: Please, take your hands off me. But the old woman only clutches tighter.
STEPHANIE: I'm calling security. She picks up the phone and presses a button.
STEPHANIE: ( into the phone ) Could you please come over? Mrs. Ganush finally releases her grip and bows her head in MRS. GANUSH You shame me. She composes herself. Then, slowly stands, puffing up her chest. Mu3tering her damaged pride.
MRS. GANUSH: You shame me. She composes herself. Then, slowly stands, puffing up her chest. Mu3tering her damaged pride.
MRS. GANUSH: I begged you. Her one. good eye fixes it's hardened gaze upon Stephanie.
MRS. GANUSH: .and you shame me. Mrs. Ganush suddenly grasps Stephanie's arm. Stephanie tries to pull away but the old lady's grip is strong. Mrs. Ganush reaches out to pluck the charm bracelet from Stephanie's wrist but the Security Guard intervenes.
SECURITY GUARD: I think your business here is finished, ma'am. The Guard escorts Mrs. Ganush from the bank. Through the banks's window, Stephanie watches the Guard lead Mrs. Ganush to a old, Chevy Cavalier on the street. Stephanie composes herself and when she again looks up, the old woman's car is gone.
MR. JACKS: That was one nutty old lady. You Stephanie nods.
MR. JACKS: You handled that just right. And by the way, as far as the Assistant Manager's position. You're at the top of the list.
STEPHANIE: Mr. Jacks nods, heads for home. Stephanie loads a pile of contracts, a ruler and a desk stapler into a cardboard box and exits the bank. The Security guard locks up behind her.
MRS. GANUSH: ( In Hungarian ) You bitch! I pluck out your fucking Mrs. Ganush's razor sharp fingernails lash out towards Stephanie's eyes. But Stephanie grabs the old woman's wrists, halting her. The withered hands drop down to wrap around Stephanie's throat. Stephanie fights for breath as she frantically searches for a weapon. Her hand finds the box on the seat next to her. She grabs a handful of colored push pins and jams them into the old woman's arm. Mrs. Ganush releases her grip. Stephanie has time for only a single gulp of air before Mrs. Ganush grabs two fistfuls of Stephanie's hair!. The old woman yanks upon it. Stephanie's head is pulled back, over the edge of the seat. Ganush braces her feet against the back of the front seat to pull even harder. Stephanie's neck is now bent so far back it's about to snap! Stephanie's hand finds the stapler, trips the release. It springs open. She swings it back over her shoulder! Ka-Thunk! Ka-Thunk! Ka-Thunk! With each blow, she delivers a staple into Mrs. Ganush's Ka-Thunk! A lucky shot the old lady's white eye is stapled The old woman HOWLS, but her grip on Stephanie's hair only Stephanie, about to black out, throws the car into gear and hits the gas. As the car' accelerates, Stephanie fastens her shoulder harness with the last of her strength. The old woman's stapled eyelid POPS open just in time for her to see. an oncoming concrete column. Stephanie's car slams into it. Stephanie is held fast by her shoulder harness. But Mrs. Ganush's body hurtles forward over the front seat, impacting against the dashboard with tremendous force. Close shot of the old woman's head slamming into the dash. In a spray of broken teeth, her dentures eject from her mouth.
STEPHANIE: I beat you, you old bitch! Next time take your Geretol! The old woman bends down, beneath Stephanie's view. Stephanie looks about. Where'd she go? The old woman pops up into view, raising a chunk of concrete and. CRASHI Stephanie SCREAMS as the window shatters. The old woman's head juts into the cart She clamps her toothless maw down upon Stephanie.'s chin. Suckling it, gumming. The old woman's good eye rolls about in ecstacy. Stephanie SHRIEKS as she pushes the slobbering head away. Strands of spittle form a bridge from the old woman's mouth to Ste phanie's jaw. The old woman's wrinkled hands grope about the front seat. She finds her dentures, now damaged from the fight. She GRUNTS as she jams them back into her mouth. She comes at Stephanie, mouth wide open and SHRIEKING! Stephanie grabs the wooden ruler from her cardboard box and shoves it down the old lady's throat. Mrs. Ganush gags, trying to retch up the ruler.
MRS. GANUSH: You shamed me. The Old Woman reaches down. Stephanie flinches. Mrs.'Ganush's gnarled hand plucks a thin brass button from the sleeve of Stephanie's coat. She waves the button through the air, and breathes out a single word:
MRS. GANUSH: Clouds move past the setting Sun. A shadow falls over Stephanie. A cold wind makes her shiver.
STEPHANIE: What? What are you doing? Stephanie sits up, reaching for her button. But the old woman 1 moves it out of reach.
MRS. GANUSH: You want it? Stephanie snatches the button back. Mrs. Ganush smiles cryptically as Stephanie stuffs the button into her coat MRS. GANUSH Soon it will be you, who comes begging to me. It begins tonight when you hear the cry.
MRS. GANUSH: Soon it will be you, who comes begging to me. It begins tonight when you hear the cry.
STEPHANIE: What cry?
MRS. GANUSH: The Lamia. It's coming for you. A large black, BUZZING fly lands on Stephanie's face. She swats it away. Her vision blurs and she grows dizzy. She leans against the car for support. When she finally looks up, Mrs. Ganush is gone.
RAY: What about a restraining order?
OFFICER NAIMARK: Well that's usually only something we do if there's a pattern of harassment. But like I said, we'll file a report and keep it on record in case you do have a continuing problem. But once we send an officer around to have a word with, her, I don't think she'll be bothering you again.
STEPHANIE: Thank you, you've been very EXT. VENTURA BLVD - LATER THAT NIGHT Stephanie and Ray eat ice cream cones as they walk past the I just thank God you're okay. You are okay, right?
RAY: I just thank God you're okay. You are okay, right?
STEPHANIE: I'm fine. Ray waits, sensing that there's more to it.
RAY: Your fine, but.
STEPHANIE: I It's just that I could have gotten her another extension. But I Loo]. You said the bank had already granted her two extensions.
RAY: Loo]. You said the bank had already granted her two extensions.
STEPHANIE: I guess. A breeze. She shivers. He wraps his arms around her protectively and after a moment, they walk on. Stephanie watches wistfully as a YOUNG COUPLE coo over their BABY. Behind the couple, Stephanie notices a neon sign in a storefront window. It reads: PSYCHIC.
STEPHANIE: Let's get our fortune's read!
RAY: You're kidding right? She cajoles a protesting Ray through the front door of the INT. STOREFRONT - NIGHT A tiny waiting room. A poster on the wall indicating the energy meridians of the human body.
RAY: I just hope to God none of my students see me here. Five bucks says he's wearing a turban. A beaded curtain parts, revealing. Rham Jas, a small, dark skinned, fifty year old Indian man. He wears a plain black suit and a white turban. His inquisitive eyes evaluate the couple.
RHAM JAS: I am Rham Jas. Seer.
STEPHANIE: How do you do? I'm Stephanie Brown and this is Ray.
RAY: But you probably already knew that. Just kidding. Rham Jas gives Ray a tight smile.
RHAM JAS: How can I help you?
STEPHANIE: We'd like to have our fortunes read. Can you do that? Read the RHAM JAS I have the ability to see certain energies. Sometimes these ' energies are a foretoken of things to come. Sometimes not. Sixty dollars, please.
RHAM JAS: I have the ability to see certain energies. Sometimes these ' energies are a foretoken of things to come. Sometimes not. Sixty dollars, please.
RAY: Sixty dollars? Isn't that a little steep for this kind of thing?
RHAM JAS: Then go. There are many who would claim to be seers. But they are not. Although you would pay them little. you would receive nothing. If you.are not serious, Rham Jas turns to depart through the beaded curtain.
STEPHANIE: She removes some bills from her purse but Ray waves her off, handing Rham Jas a credit card.
RHAM JAS: Platinum card. Very good. He swipes Ray's card through the credit card machine. INT Rham Jas'S BACK ROOM - NIGHT A sparsely furnished, dimly lit room. The walls are lined with old books. Rham Jas stands before Stephanie and Ray, who sit at a card table. Stephanie giggles with excitement.
STEPHANIE: Rham Jas smiles back.
RHAM JAS: That's quite all right. So, you wish to know something of your destiny. Very good. We shall see what the fates have in store. Rham Jas crosses to the window and closes the curtains.
RAY: Freud said destiny was not an act of fate but rather something created by our subconscious to control our conscious choices.
RHAM JAS: That is true. But. "We should not pretend to understand the world only by intellect."
RAY: Carl Jung.
RHAM JAS: Yes. From his treatise "Psychological types".
RAY: Jung the New Agers' favorite RHAM JAS Because he wasn't afraid to bring God into the equation. Rham Jas takes a seat at the table, across from Stephanie.
RHAM JAS: Because he wasn't afraid to bring God into the equation. Rham Jas takes a seat at the table, across from Stephanie.
RHAM JAS: Your hand, please. Stephanie extends her hand to Rham Jas. He closes his eyes and concentrates. Stephanie smiles excitedly to Ray, who raises a skeptical eyebrow.
RHAM JAS: You,work with money.
TO: That's right! 4
STEPHANIE: That's right! 4
RHAM JAS: But. you've lost something.
STEPHANIE: No. I don't think so.
RHAM JAS: No. No, you're right. Something's been taken from you.
STEPHANIE: No, I- Rham Jas grabs her arm and turns it, revealing the threads. that once held the button on her coat sleeve.
RHAM JAS: A button.
STEPHANIE: Well, yes! Some Old Woman.
RAY: Well anyone can see she lost a button. So what?
STEPHANIE: But Ray, it was very strange. At the bank today. The old woman. the one I told you about. she plucked the button right from my Why would she do that?
RAY: Why would she do that?
RHAM JAS: If you would please, both be quiet. Rham Jae concentrates, his eyelids flutter. Stephanie appears uneasy. The flame of the candle begins to flicker as a breeze sweeps through the room. The wind chimes TINKLE. Ray pulls his collar closed against the sudden chill in the air. Rham Jas's back stiffens.
RHAM JAS: I think that is enough for now.
STEPHANIE: Wait. You saw something. What?
RHAM JAS: I'm sorry. I'm tired and I see it's become quite late. Of course I will refund your money.
STEPHANIE: Tell me. Please. Rham Jas hesitates, then.
RHAM JAS: A bad spirit has come upon you.
STEPHANIE: RHAM JAS Did you blaspheme the dead while visiting a grave site?
RHAM JAS: Did you blaspheme the dead while visiting a grave site?
STEPHANIE: RHAM JAS Do you play with Ouija board or confer with those who practice the black arts?
RHAM JAS: Do you play with Ouija board or confer with those who practice the black arts?
RAY: What is this?!
STEPHANIE: No. No, I didn't.
RHAM JAS: Then perhaps someone has cursed Who? 0
STEPHANIE: Who? 0
STEPHANIE: How did he know all that?
RAY: Know what? That you lost,a button?1 He makes some good guesses, stirs you up, leaving you with a lot of questions. And conveniently, his business card. C'mon, he's a scam He didn't want the money. He tried to give the money back.
STEPHANIE: He didn't want the money. He tried to give the money back.
RAY: In the end, he took it, didn't he?
STEPHANIE: I guess so.
RAY: So this is him. Got a name?
STEPHANIE: Uh. just "Kitty" so far.
RAY: Sure you don't want me to spend the Don't tempt me. I've got to prep a presentation for the morning.
STEPHANIE: Don't tempt me. I've got to prep a presentation for the morning.
RAY: Ray kisses her, opens the front door and exits. He calls back to her from his car:
RAY: Remember, dinner at my folk's house, tomorrow night. We're supposed to bring desert. I could pick something up?
STEPHANIE: No. I'm planning on baking my special cake.
RAY: Sounds good. Try not to stay up too Ray waves and steps into his car. Stephanie watches him drive INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT Stephanie site at the kitchen table in her flannel pajamas, entering financial data into her laptop. An episode of "Desperate Housewives" plays in the background on TV. A baking timer CHIMES. Stephanie removes a beautifully browned cake from the oven and sets it on the counter to cool. Her roommate, ELLEN, comes down the stairs, snuggling the kitten.
STEPHANIE: Isn't he adorable?
ELLEN: Let's hope the landlord thinks so. She sets down,the kitten and picks up her overnight bag. 0
ELLEN: What about you? You going to be okay? You know, I don't have to go out tonight.
T: What about you? You going to be okay? You know, I don't have to go out tonight.
STEPHANIE: No, I'm fine. Have a good time.
ELLEN: Do I look great? Be honest.
STEPHANIE: But. Isn't that Marci's dress?
ELLEN: Yeah. And if she calls, tell her not to go bi-polar on me, I'll'get it back to her by tomorrow. Or the next day. Bye! Ellen exits. Stephanie places butter into a mixer for the cake frosting. Through the kitchen window we can see Ellen walking down the path, toward the street. She steps through the iron gate, latching it closed behind her.
STEPHANIE: Get off me! Get off! The phantom hands vanish. Stephanie looks about, eyes wild.
RAY: So she came to your house? This is crazy. I'm calling that police He begins to dial but Stephanie stops him.
STEPHANIE: Ray, you're not listening. It wasn't her. It was something that she sicked on me.
RAY: I don't understand.
STEPHANIE: I didn't tell you the whole story. That old woman. after she knocked me down, and pulled the button from my coat, she told me that.
RAY: She said that something was coming for me. and it did. Ray stares at her with concern.
STEPHANIE: She said that something was coming for me. and it did. Ray stares at her with concern.
DOCTOR RANGAVERTZ: Ray, you were right to call me. Never a good idea to be personally involved with your patient.
RAY: What do you think?
DOCTOR RANGAVERTZ: 1b Medically, she's fine. She's just very distraught. She's displaying some paranoia and a sense of panic. Classic symptoms of a post traumatic stress disorder. Probably a result of being assaulted by that old woman. Doctor Rangavertz scribbles out a prescription and hands it to Ray.
RAY: How worried should I be?
DOCTOR RANGAVERTZ: We'll have to wait and see.
RAY: How you doing?
STEPHANIE: Better now. At the time it just seemed so real. I'm so embarrassed.
RAY: Don't be, you had a terrible day and you.got a little wigged out. It po, what now, Doc?
STEPHANIE: po, what now, Doc?
RAY: I was gonna surprise you, but what the hell. I've been planning a little trip for us this week end. Saturday morning we're taking a train to Santa Barbara.
STEPHANIE: My family owns a cabin up there. In, the hills. Overlooking this little river. We'll light a fire, drink some champagne and screw our brains You sure know how to talk to a It's a chance to just be together. Undisturbed. There's a lot of stuff I want to talk to you abqut but it never seems to be the right time.
RAY: My family owns a cabin up there. In, the hills. Overlooking this little river. We'll light a fire, drink some champagne and screw our brains You sure know how to talk to a It's a chance to just be together. Undisturbed. There's a lot of stuff I want to talk to you abqut but it never seems to be the right time.
STEPHANIE: You sure know how to talk to a It's a chance to just be together. Undisturbed. There's a lot of stuff I want to talk to you abqut but it never seems to be the right time.
RAY: It's a chance to just be together. Undisturbed. There's a lot of stuff I want to talk to you abqut but it never seems to be the right time.
STEPHANIE: Sounds nice. She draws in a deep breath and for the first time that evening, she looks at peace. Ray watches, her as she closes her eyes and drifts off to sleep.
MRS GANUSH: You shamed mel MATCH CUT to: Ray SHAKING her!
RAY: Steph! Wake Upl
STEPHANIE: Oh my God: Oh Godl
RAY: It was just a dream. It's okay. She gets control. Ray smooths out the tangled hair from her sweaty face. He looks deeply into her eyes, afraid of what's happening to her. The phone in the next room, RINGS.'Ray looks over, decides to ignore it. It keeps RINGING.
STEPHANIE: Go ahead.
RAY: I'll be right back. He steps into the next room and we hear him answer the phone. Stephanie sighs and lays back down. next to Mrs. Ganush! The Old Woman is covered in.a swarm of BLACK FLIES! Stephanie
SHRIEKS!: The Old Woman opens her maw, exposing sharp broken teeth. She lunges for Stephanie! Stephanie grabs the old woman by her hair, halting the chomping teeth inches from her face. She tries to push Mrs. Ganush away. But the Old Woman's yellowed teeth SNAP and press ever The muscles in Stephanie's arms are trembling. She is weakening. Mrs. Ganush, closes in, about to clamp her teeth down upon Stephanie's face when Stephanie suddenly awakens with a GASP. It was all a dream within a dream. She bolts up out of bed. Takes her bearings. She's alone in Ray's bedroom. She checks the bathroom. Under the bed. All Ray enters.
RAY: You, okay?
STEPHANIE: No. No Oh my God. I had some 4 dreams. Awful.
RAY: Want to tell me about them?
STEPHANIE: The old lady. She was here. I couldn't wake up. Stephanie shakes her head. She can't finish. Ray pulls back the drapes. Sunlight pours into the room. Stephanie tries to put the dream out of her mind. Ray sits next to her, strokes her hair.
RAY: Doctor Rangervertz said you could stop by his office during your lunch hour. Stephanie nods.
RAY: I had them replace the window last night. Still needs some body work.
RAY: We've got to be prepared that it might take some time for you to get over this. She nods.
STU RUBIN: Hi Steph. Just getting here?
STEPHANIE: What are you, the hall monitor?
STU RUBIN: Ha ha! You're funny, Steph.
STEPHANIE: What do you want?
STU RUBIN: I need you to finish teaching me the loan procedures.
T: I've got a lot on my mind. Let's do it tomorrow.
STEPHANIE: I've got a lot on my mind. Let's do it tomorrow.
STU RUBIN: Sure. I'll just tell Mr. Jacks that you don't have the time right now. Maybe he can show me. She glances up. Mr. Jacks'is still watching her.
STEPHANIE: No, no, that's all right. I'll do it. Where were we?
STU RUBIN: We were going over the asset-based lending guidelines.
STEPHANIE: Right. Okay. Let's say your client is a company that can't get traditional bank financing but 10 needs a secured loan. We offer
STU: .uh, we offer several types of asset-based lending which consist of revolving lines of credit and term loans secured by accounts receivables, their inventory, machinery ,
STEPHANIE: .uh, we offer several types of asset-based lending which consist of revolving lines of credit and term loans secured by accounts receivables, their inventory, machinery ,
STU: ( in her full Missouri twang ) And get your filthy pig knuckle off my desk! Stu is taken aback by Stephanie's outburst. He retreats to his desk in confusion. Stephanie sits, rattled. A drop of blood falls onto a piece of paper on her desk. The blood is trickling from her nose. Stephanie grabs a tissue to halt the bleeding. She looks down to see a large black fly land upon the drop of blood. She gasps and stands, her mind racing. She knows what she must do. She finds Mrs. Ganush's loan documents. She stuffs them into a folder, grabs her purse and bolts for the exit. Mr. Jacks engaged with a customer, calls after her:
STEPHANIE: ( in her full Missouri twang ) And get your filthy pig knuckle off my desk! Stu is taken aback by Stephanie's outburst. He retreats to his desk in confusion. Stephanie sits, rattled. A drop of blood falls onto a piece of paper on her desk. The blood is trickling from her nose. Stephanie grabs a tissue to halt the bleeding. She looks down to see a large black fly land upon the drop of blood. She gasps and stands, her mind racing. She knows what she must do. She finds Mrs. Ganush's loan documents. She stuffs them into a folder, grabs her purse and bolts for the exit. Mr. Jacks engaged with a customer, calls after her:
MR. JACKS: Stephanie? Where are you going? She moves quickly out the door, pretending not to hear him.
STEPHANIE: Mrs. Ganush? No answer. She steps inside.
STEPHANIE: Mrs. Ganush? ' She moves forward into the living room.
MRS. GANUSH: I knew you'd come. Stephanie almost jumps out of her skin. As her eyes adjust she sees Mrs. Ganush sitting on a crate in the corner of the room. Her arthritic hands clutching a yellowed photograph.
STEPHANIE: Hi. I'm here because I think I can help you. I can get your house back for you.
MRS. GANUSH: It's so empty now.
STEPHANIE: So. on behalf of the bank I just want to resolve this to your satisfaction. This whole thing got personal and there was really no reason for that. The bank made a mistake and I can fix it for you and in return I'd like you to- cancel or call off, whatever you. you know that thing you did to me. Okay? No hard feelings. So.
STEPHANIE: My mother was a proud woman. Dignity. That's what she had. Stephanie nods. Waits an appropriate moment, then: places the document gently down on the floor next to Mrs. Ganush.
STEPHANIE: All you need to do is. sign here. Stephanie offers her a pen.
STEPHANIE: .and I'll take care of the rest. Mrs. Ganush's hard eyes find Stephanie's. They bore in.
MRS. GANUSH: No? But. I'm saying I'll make things right. Just sign this and you can keep the house. Isn't that what you wanted?
STEPHANIE: No? But. I'm saying I'll make things right. Just sign this and you can keep the house. Isn't that what you wanted?
MRS. GANUSH: It was what I wanted before you shamed me. Now I want to see you Please! I've suffered enough!
STEPHANIE: Please! I've suffered enough!
MRS GANUSH: Not yet! Mrs. Ganush suddenly erupts in a broken toothed CACKLE.
STEPHANIE: You're insane! Just. just a crazy old woman! I don't even know why I came here!
TO: Stephanie halts at a red light. out of the corner of her eye she sees something odd.
STEPHANIE: The men warmly escort into the First National Bank.
STEPHANIE: What's he doing at First National? The car behind her HONKS! She drives on.
RHAM JAS: What did it sound like.
STEPHANIE: Like. shrieking. It was awful. He nods. Closes the book.
RHAM JAS: That would be the Lamia. The "Black Lamia. Right. That's the word the old woman used.
STEPHANIE: Lamia. Right. That's the word the old woman used.
RHAM JAS: It is a nasty spirit. A taker of souls. A creature of misfortune for you and those around you. It is often summoned by the Gypsies for their dour deeds. On the third day the Lamia comes for the owner of the accursed object.
STEPHANIE: Accursed object? What object?
RHAM JAS: Something that the old woman took from you, cursed, then gave back. Now it dawns on Stephanie. She looks to the threads on her The button.
STEPHANIE: The button.
STEPHANIE: She holds the button up for him to inspect. But it's presence makes him uneasy..He wags his finger back and forth. She lowers it.
STEPHANIE: What if I just burn the thing?
RHAM JAS: No matter what condition the button is in, you would still be the owner. The Lamia would still come to take you.
STEPHANIE: Take me where?
NO: Rham Jas gives her a sad smile and closes the text. She knows where. Stymied, she tucks the button back into her coat There's got to be something I can RHAM JAS Yes. There are many ways to appease a spirit. The simplest is a blood offering. An animal sacrifice. A small creature would do. You could sacrifice a chicken. It's all in Rham Jas produces a modern book on animal sacrifice which he sets before her.
STEPHANIE: There's got to be something I can RHAM JAS Yes. There are many ways to appease a spirit. The simplest is a blood offering. An animal sacrifice. A small creature would do. You could sacrifice a chicken. It's all in Rham Jas produces a modern book on animal sacrifice which he sets before her.
RHAM JAS: Yes. There are many ways to appease a spirit. The simplest is a blood offering. An animal sacrifice. A small creature would do. You could sacrifice a chicken. It's all in Rham Jas produces a modern book on animal sacrifice which he sets before her.
STEPHANIE: No way. I'm a vegetarian. I'm a member of PETA, for Christ's sake. I don't go around killing animals.
RHAM JAS: You will be surprised what you will be willing to do when the Lamia comes for you. She considers his words, looks down to the book. CLOSE ON A DIAGRAM OF AN ANIMAL SACRIFICE - A creature's heart being cut from it's body. CAMERA pulls back to reveal that Stephanie now site at her kitchen table, reading the book. We see other diagrams: The heart being placed into a skillet over an open fire. The burial of the smoking heart. Stephanie's kitten PURRS, as it rubs against her leg. Stephanie closes the book, shutting out the disturbing She hears the SHRIEK of the rusty gate outside. She moves to the window and peers out. The rusting iron gate is open. Stephanie senses a change in the room. Shadows shift and grow deeper. The air is suddenly oppressive. Something is She moves to the front door and puts her ear to it. Quiet. 1b But then
STEPHANIE: Ellen? ! But it's not Ellen. Stephanie puts her,ear to the door. The sound of an animal's hooves on wood. Something is climbing the stairs. It stops outside her bedroom door. Stephanie holds her breath, listening. She sees a shadow beneath the crack in the door.
STEPHANIE: I know that you're there! The window behind her explodes into the room with a deafening
ROAR!: She ducks for cover. Another window is blown inward and the glass sent her way. She SCREAMS and runs toward the bathroom door. It SLAMS shut in her face! BOOM! Another window is SHATTERED by the angry, unseen thing. The force knocks her to the bed. The blankets are torn from the mattress, throwing Stephanie to the floor. The bedsheets whisk around the room, flapping and twisting about like 1b drunken ghosts.
STEPHANIE: Here kitty-kitty. Here, kitty- She moves closer until her face fills the screen.
ELLEN'S VOICE: Stephanie quickly tosses the knife into the bushes. Ellen Didn't you hear me calling? I was looking all over for you. Are you power eating Clark bars again? 'Cause there's about ten thousand wrappers all over the Oh my God, is that blood?1 Stephanie glances guiltily to the corner of the garden. But no blood shows.
ELLEN: Didn't you hear me calling? I was looking all over for you. Are you power eating Clark bars again? 'Cause there's about ten thousand wrappers all over the Oh my God, is that blood?1 Stephanie glances guiltily to the corner of the garden. But no blood shows.
STEPHANIE: No. Why would there be blood?
ELLEN: Right there, on your sleeve. Stephanie glances at the red spot on her sleeve.
STEPHANIE: That's just tomato juice. I was inside making a salad and. I cut a tomato and I must have gotten it on my sleeve. Ellen gives her roommate a worried look.
ELLEN: Look, Steph, we're friends so if something's wrong.
STEPHANIE: I had some problems. A situation. But I think everything is going to be good now. Ellen isn't so sure.
ELLEN: Go with the short skirt.
STEPHANIE: What about this one? She hold up a longer, more formal dress.
ELLEN: Uh uh. That one's saying "I'm trying to impress you with my conservative taste."
STEPHANIE: But that's what I want it to say. Ellen shakes her head, no. Stephanie takes a last look in the mirror, decides to go with the short skirt.
STEPHANIE: Okay. This is it.
ELLEN: Tell me again. the exact words he Just that this little cabin would be a great place for us to really connect and that there was something he'd been meaning to talk about with me.
STEPHANIE: Just that this little cabin would be a great place for us to really connect and that there was something he'd been meaning to talk about with me.
ELLEN: Oh my god, you are so engaged! Ellen's smile fades. She shakes her head despondently.
STEPHANIE: What's wrong? I
ELLEN: I just know that Rob's never going to ask me.
STEPHANIE: But I thought you said that relationship was only physical.
ELLEN: Oh, I'd never marry a guy like that. but I'd still like him to ask me.
STEPHANIE: EXT. NICHOLAS CANYON - DUSK Stephanie's car pulling up in front of Ray's hillside house. The convertible top is down and Stephanie looks radiant in the golden sunlight.
RAY'S VOICE: Let's get a look at that dress. She steps from the car and models the dress. S
STEPHANIE: You like
RAY: I like.
RAY: Something wrong?
STEPHANIE: It's just that I'm not, some ivy leaguer with an impressive resume. I have a feeling that's what your folks really want.
RAY: Maybe. But in the end, it's about what you and I want.
STEPHANIE: Is that so? Ray gives her a reassuring nod. The front door opens revealing Ray's parents, GEORGE AND TRUDY DALTON. Behind them we glimpse an exquisitely furnished She kisses her son.
TRUDY: She kisses her son.
RAYMONDL: She kisses her son.
RAY: Stephanie, this is my mother, Trudy, and my Father, George. Trudy glances at Stephanie's revealing cocktail dress with thinly veiled disapproval. Stephanie self-consciously tugs it How do you do?
TRUDY: How do you do?
GEORGE: Nice tp meet you, Stephanie.
STEPHANIE: It's very nice to meet you, too.
GEORGE: Please, come in.
STEPHANIE: Thank you.
A: She steps inside.
STEPHANIE: You have a lovely home.
GEORGE: Thanks. I'll get us something to As George exits, Stephanie presents her home made cake to I hope you don't mind. I baked something for you. Trudy hesitates, then takes the cake from Stephanie.
STEPHANIE: I hope you don't mind. I baked something for you. Trudy hesitates, then takes the cake from Stephanie.
TRUDY: It's lovely. Homemade.
STEPHANIE: It's a harvest cake.
TRUDY: Harvest cake? Is'that some kind of cake you make on a. farm?
STEPHANIE: We used to, yeah, when you have a lot of extra duck eggs. Especially right before spring; that's when you get a real dense yolk. Makes for, rich cake. The mother forces a smile.
TRUDY: You must give me the recipe Sure. It's easy. The real secret's in the milk. You want it Unclean. Uh. I mean "unpasteurized"? Is that safe?
STEPHANIE: Sure. It's easy. The real secret's in the milk. You want it Unclean. Uh. I mean "unpasteurized"? Is that safe?
TRUDY: Unclean. Uh. I mean "unpasteurized"? Is that safe?
STEPHANIE: Uh huh. And you want that milk still warm. Straight from the cow. Trudy has to stifle her gag reflex. George returns and hands Ray and Stephanie a cocktail.
TRUDY: Excuse me while I go find someplace to put this. As Trudy takes away the cake, a cat rounds the corner. It HISSES at Stephanie. She takes a step back.
GEORGE: Never could understand that damned animal. Hate cats. Trudy returns from the kitchen.
TRUDY: That's strange. Hecuba's usually very sweet.
STEPHANIE: That's okay. I had a cat. I What do you mean "had a cat"? What happened to him?
RAY: What do you mean "had a cat"? What happened to him?
STEPHANIE: How would I know what happened? Probably nothing. You know how cats are. They come and they go. Ray nods slowly. About to say something but let's it go.
GEORGE: Still keeping up with your coin collection, Ray?
RAY: I try to. In fact Stephanie just found me a 1925 Indian Head nickel at her bank.
GEORGE: Really? So, how long have you been working there, Stephanie?
STEPHANIE: Almost two years now.
TRUDY: The job of a bank teller must be so difficult. I'd think with all the counting and the repetition, it'd become so tedious.
STEPHANIE: Yes, you're right. But I'm not a Stephanie's a loan officer in charge of small business and home loans. And she's on a fast track for a promotion. Right, Steph?
TRUDY: Stephanie's a loan officer in charge of small business and home loans. And she's on a fast track for a promotion. Right, Steph?
RAY: Stephanie's a loan officer in charge of small business and home loans. And she's on a fast track for a promotion. Right, Steph?
STEPHANIE: I'd like to think so. actually, It depends. If I could close this big account that I'm working on, it would really help.
GEORGE: Must be a very important loan.
STEPHANIE: It would be the biggest that my branch has ever handled.
GEORGE: How''d it come to you?
STEPHANIE: Well, I was reading the Wall Street Journal and found this innovative medical supply company that was interested in expanding but didn't have the liquidity. I met with their CFO and presented a formula for restructuring-some of their long term debt. It created an environment where I was able to offer them a rather attractive loan
PACKAGE: You sure sound like you've got a lot going for you, Stephanie.
GEORGE: You sure sound like you've got a lot going for you, Stephanie.
TRUDY: Your mother must be very proud.
STEPHANIE: I suppose. I don't see her much.
TRUDY: Why is that?
STEPHANIE: Well, ever since my dad died she doesn't talk much. She mostly stays on the farm and. keeps to herself. Because. There is an awkward silence.
TRUDY: Does your mother have a drinking Cut her some slack, mom, she
RAY: Cut her some slack, mom, she
STEPHANIE: Yes. I'm afraid she does.
TRUDY: I'm sorry. It's nothing to be ashamed of. And I find your honesty Thank you.
STEPHANIE: Thank you.
TRUDY: You've got back bone. Not like that other girl Ray brought by. What was her name? Alicia? She was dreadful. So ill-mannered. And no ( stage whisper to
RAY: ( stage whisper to
TRUDY: ( stage whisper to
STEPHANIE ): He found her through the,internet.
RAY: Mors, please.
TRUDY: Stephanie, am I being too tough on Stephanie, happy to be taken into the family circle, winks at No. Not at all. That's what mom's are for.
STEPHANIE: No. Not at all. That's what mom's are for.
TRUDY: Thank you, Stephanie. Maybe I will try that Harvest cake of yours, after all. Trudy cuts herself a piece. Stephanie tastes the cake and emits a tiny cough.
STEPHANIE: Excuse me. She clears her throat. But the cough returns, grows larger.
STEPHANIE: Just a little tickle in my She stands and takes a few steps away from the table. Ray looks on concerned.
RAY: Are you okay?
TRUDY: Oh! OH MY GOD! The fly lazily BUZZES across the table, slowly circling Trudy's head. Trudy spits out a mouthful of harvest cake into her napkin. George lowers his fork and pushes away his plate of unclean farm cake. Ray is baffled, too stunned to speak. Stephanie's gaze shifts to the kitchen door. From The other side, she hears the sound of a hoofs. Ray tries to cover for Stephanie:
RAY: I'm so sorry, Stephanie. I don't know how that fly got. into your
STEPHANIE: Wait. What's that sound?
TRUDY: What sound-?
STEPHANIE: SHHH! Listen! Trudy listens along with the others. They can't hear anything. But Stephanie hears the FOOTSTEPS drawing closer.
TRUDY: I'm sorry, I can't hear anything.
STEPHANIE: ( mutters under her breath ) Must be deafer than a post! But Trudy heard that and takes offense. But before she can say anything, a SHADOW appears at the base of the door. Stephanie stands and shouts at it:
STEPHANIE: Leave me alone! Just leave me the fuck alone! Stephanie grabs her dinner plate and hurls it just past Trudy's head. It shatters against the base of the door, spraying everyone with bits of broken china and fish. The shadow and FOOTSTEPS are gone. Ray rushes to her side.
T: Leave me alone! Just leave me the fuck alone! Stephanie grabs her dinner plate and hurls it just past Trudy's head. It shatters against the base of the door, spraying everyone with bits of broken china and fish. The shadow and FOOTSTEPS are gone. Ray rushes to her side.
RAY: Steph, it's okay! There's nothing She looks about. George and Trudy regard Stephanie as if she were mad.
STEPHANIE: I. I think I'd better go.
TRUDY: I think that's best, dear. She heads for the door. Ray starts to go after her but his
TRUDY: Let her go, Ray. She's a sick girl.
RAY: She needs me. Trudy grabs Ray's arm.
TRUDY: I'm telling you not to go after Ray gently pulls free of his mother's grasp and chases after EXT. DALTON HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER Ray rushes outside stopping Stephanie as she is about to get into her car.
RAY: What did you see in there?
STEPHANIE: You don't want to know. Ray pulls her close.
RAY: Tell me!
STEPHANIE: The thing that's coming for me. What the old woman sent.
RAY: Listen to me. What you're going through right now It's like the doctor said, it's a stress reaction No. I wanted to believe that but it's real, Ray. You just don't want to open your eyes to it because it threatens you. Because if I'm right and there is something out there, then you'd have to throw out everything you teach. And where'd that leave you? Like a plow without a mule. Ray just stares at her. A long moment passes as he wonders if maybe she isn't right.
STEPHANIE: No. I wanted to believe that but it's real, Ray. You just don't want to open your eyes to it because it threatens you. Because if I'm right and there is something out there, then you'd have to throw out everything you teach. And where'd that leave you? Like a plow without a mule. Ray just stares at her. A long moment passes as he wonders if maybe she isn't right.
STEPHANIE: Unless you're willing to take a chance and believe in me, I can't be with you any more. She steps into the car and drives off. Ray watches her tail lights, as they vanish into the night.
STEPHANIE: Hi. Yes. I came to see Sylvia Ganush. Is she here? The door opens wider, revealing a sexy twenty-four year old Gypsy girl. ILENKA GANUSH. Bottle of beer in her hand, long black hair, earrings and a snake tatoo on'her neck. She wears a low cut shirt and tight shorts. EASTERN EUROPEAN HIP HOP and LAUGHTER are heard from within the house.
ILENKA: I'm Ilenka, Sylvia's granddaughter. Who are you?
STEPHANIE: Stephanie Brown. I'm. sort of. a friend of hers. Actually, I've been trying to help her with a loan
ILENKA: Wait. I know who you are. Grandma told me you'd come. You're the woman from the bank. The one who took her house.
STEPHANIE: It was really the bank that took the house. I just work there. In fact, I tried to help your grandma get-the house back, but my boss wouldn't let me. Ilenka knows she's lying. Stephanie knows that she knows.
ILENKA: That's not what happened, is it? Are you going to stand here on my porch and lie to my face?
STEPHANIE: . no.
ILENKA: You used to be a real fat girl, to didn't you?
STEPHANIE: I can tell. You know, you caused my grandma a lot of pain. That house was her pride. When you took that from her, she had nothing left. You're not welcome here. She starts to close the door. Stephanie halts her. Desperate now, no where else to turn.
ILENKA: I can tell. You know, you caused my grandma a lot of pain. That house was her pride. When you took that from her, she had nothing left. You're not welcome here. She starts to close the door. Stephanie halts her. Desperate now, no where else to turn.
STEPHANIE: Okay! I did it. It was me who denied her the loan. I was trying, to get ahead at work and I shouldn't have done it. It was Damn straight it was wrong.
ILENKA: Damn straight it was wrong.
STEPHANIE: And I'm ashamed about it. And I'm going to get down on my hands and knees and beg her to forgive me. She said-that I hadn't suffered enough. But now I think she'll see that I have and then maybe she'll let me.
ILENKA: .make everything all right for her, is that it?
STEPHANIE: Ilenka gives a bitter, cryptic smile. She motions for Stephanie to follow. They enter a room filled with young Gypsies drinking, smoking and talking loudly in a Slavic A WOMAN WITH A CANE shouts as she throws a pair of dice. A Hungarian man with a long, braided ponytail, curses his bad luck as he pays cash to the woman.
' STEPHANIE: Where is she?
ILENKA: Still going to make everything all The mourners replace the corpse atop the coffee table. Ilenka addresses the crowd in Hungarian. She tells them that it was this white trash farm girl that threw her grandmother t from her home and that she now bears the curse of Lamia. A mother shields her daughter's eyes from the sight of Stephanie, the cursed one, then hurriedly kisses her .crucifix. A man spits at her feet then walks off.
STEPHANIE: No, please I needed her to take this thing off me.
ILENKA: It will never come off.
STEPHANIE: You know about it? Then, please help me. I'm begging you.
ILENKA: She said you'd come begging. I only wish she could have lived to see The blood drains from Stephanie's face.
ILENKA: .maybe she can. Stephanie glances down to the corpse. It's head is now facing her. It's dead eyes, OPEN!
STEPHANIE: Fuck that! I paid you a hundred and seventy nine dollars for that book!
RHAM JAS: It was a limited printing! Please control yourself!
STEPHANIE: I did what you said- that blood offering. I killed that little kitty deader than Hogan's goat. Lotta good that did me.
RHAM JAS: We are dealing with elusive and powerful forces. There are no She wants to shout, but instead, closes her eyes and sits.
STEPHANIE: Just tell me what to do. Rham Jas considers. A dark look crosses his face. Stephanie tries to read his expression.
RHAM JAS: We must somehow dissuade the spirit from taking your soul.
STEPHANIE: RHAM JAS 1 A seance. And it should be soon. For tomorrow will be the third Have you done this before?
RHAM JAS: 1 A seance. And it should be soon. For tomorrow will be the third Have you done this before?
STEPHANIE: Have you done this before?
RHAM JAS: No. But I know someone. I can arrange what is necessary, but you must understand that everyone involved in this would be taking a great risk with their lives.
STEPHANIE: What would you need from me? Rham Jas thinks for a moment, weighing the dangers. He pulls out a pipe and packs it with tobacco. He tamps it down and lights up.
RHAM JAS: Twenty thousand dollars. Cash. By tomorrow. 5
VA: INT. STEPHANIE'S HOUSE - NIGHT Stephanie is hastily piling all her valuables atop her bed: sporting equipment, TV, VCR/DVD COMBO, CD player, IPOD, Etc. Ellen enters, rattled.
ELLEN: I need to talk to you.
STEPHANIE: Ellen. I'm sorry. This a bad time right now. I got a little emergency and. say you got any cash I can She starts stuffing the valuables into a large duffle bag.
ELLEN: No, I don't. But Steph I
STEPHANIE: what about your credit cards? What's your cash advance limit?
ELLEN: Steph, we need to talk about the Where has that little rascal been? He's always running off, have you noticed that?
STEPHANIE: Where has that little rascal been? He's always running off, have you noticed that?
ELLEN: Stephanie. I was in the back yard and I saw where the ground was dug up. I started digging and. You buried that little kitty in our backyard. What happened?
STEPHANIE: I didn't want to tell you. It fell out the window and died. It's sad,
BUT: I found the bloody knife in the What are you, a cat detective?
ELLEN: I found the bloody knife in the What are you, a cat detective?
STEPHANIE: What are you, a cat detective?
ELLEN: Steph? I'm going to tell you this as your friend. There is something seriously wrong with you. Stephanie looks up from,her frantic panting.
STEPHANIE: Uh. Duhi
ELLEN: I'm moving out. I can't live like Ellen exits. Stephanie angrily calls after her:
STEPHANIE: An' don't let the barn door hit you on your ass on yer way out!
STEPHANIE: I can't get the twenty thousand. You're gonna have to help me with what I've got.
STEPHANIE: How much?! CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that we are'in a PAWN SHOP. Men haggle loudly in Arabic over the price of a gold chain. The PAWN BROKER stands before-all of Stephanie's worldly belongings: A toaster oven, computer, racing bike, stereo, microwave oven, necklaces, jewelry.
PAWN BROKER: Thirty-eight hundred for Including my jewlery?
STEPHANIE: Including my jewlery?
PAWN BROKER: Stephanie curses under her breath, checks the balance on her checkbook, does the math, speaks into the phone;
STEPHANIE: Six thousand.
RHAM JAS: I'm sorry. Not possible.
STEPHANIE: Look, I'll give you six now and
RHAM JAS: No. There will be others involved and I cannot-ask them to accept such a risk for less. Good night. He hangs up. The line goes dead. She tries to throw the phone but it's attached with a short metal cord. She turns to the Pawn Broker.
STEPHANIE: I'll take it! Stephanie thinks about how she'll get the extra cash. She hesitantly dials a number on the pay phone. It rings and rings as she glances to a picture buried deep in her wallet: A. photo of. The younger, obese Stephanie and her stern looking Mother. Both stand before a bleak snow covered, mid-western farm.
STEPHANIE: Mom? Hi, it's me. Did you get,the Christmas card? Yeah, I guess it has been a while. Listen, I'm in kind of a fix, here. I've been pretty sick and I need to borrow some money for an operation. I need fourteen thousand dollars right away. Now I know you still have that pension fund at the credit Union so yeah, but. okay. Okay, it's just that- I understand. Okay, mom. Bye. The line goes dead. She slumps down against the pay phone.
PULL BACK: To reveal we are in the employee bathroom at the bank. She fixes her hair so it's just right. She. straightens out a tiny wrinkle in her business suit, smiles her best upbeat smile and exits the bathroom.
STEPHANIE: Mr. Jacks, this is kind of awkward for me. I know it's not official yet, but I was wondering if I could get a copy of the employment contract for the new position you offered me?
MR. JACKS: The assistant manager's position?
STEPHANIE: Yes. See, one of my family members is having a little emergency which requires me to get them an immediate loan
MR. JACKS: Stephanie. There's a problem. The McPherson deal was cancelled last night.
STEPHANIE: What? 1
MR. JACKS: Yeah, right after I informed the main branch that we had this big loan pending,,I find out that they just made their deal over at First National. I got a call in to see, what exactly happened but right now this doesn't look too good for you or me. So this assistant manager promotion has been delayed. In fact, I think that with everything that's been happening, I'm gonna have to give that job to Stu. Stephanie is devastated.
STEPHANIE: Stu. I see. Mr. Jacks sees tears begin to well up in her eyes.
MR. JACKS: I'm sorry. Look. If you've got family problems. Maybe you should take the day off and sort them out. Stephanie node and exits the bank.
STEPHAINE: But I thought you didn't believe.
RAY': I don't. But you do. I know this is important for, you . she embraces him.
STEPHANIE: Are you coming in?
RAY: I wanted to but Rham Jas said non believers weren't welcome. I still don't like this.
T: I wanted to but Rham Jas said non believers weren't welcome. I still don't like this.
STEPHANIE: I know how crazy this must seem. But it will all be over after this I swear to you. He nods. She kisses him.
STEPHANIE: I'll call you when it's done.
RAY: I'll be waiting.
STEPHANIE: We'll laugh about it on the train, t Yeah. Stephanie steps from the car. Ray drives off. She turns to face the old house.
RAY: t Yeah. Stephanie steps from the car. Ray drives off. She turns to face the old house.
RHAM JAS: Miss Brown. Allow me the pleasure of an introduction. A woman rises from the shadows.
RHAM JAS: .Shaun San Dena The eighty year old woman smiles a toothless smile to RHAM JAS Shaun San Dena is an experienced 41 medium. Furthermore, she has a personal knowledge of the Lamia.
RHAM JAS: Shaun San Dena is an experienced 41 medium. Furthermore, she has a personal knowledge of the Lamia.
STEPHANIE: SHUAN SAN DENA I lost a young boy's soul to the That's reassuring.
STEPHANIE: That's reassuring.
STEPHANIE: I'll do whatever it takes. And the sooner the better.
STEPHANIE: SHAUN SAN DENA I will force the spirit of the Lamia into the goat. Milos, that's when you strike. Stephanie blanches but remains silent.
STEPHANIE: What do I have to do?
RHAM JAS: You must allow the darkness in. You must invite the dead to co-mingle with your spirit..
STEPHANIE: I'm scared.
RHAM JAS: Yes. Now repeat these words. I welcome the dead into my soul. Rham Jae waits for Stephanie's response. She's shifts in her seat uncomfortably.
STEPHANIE: I welcome the dead into my soul.
RHAM JAS: You must believe it! Stephanie takes a deep breath and they begin the chant again. This time,, together.
RHAM JAS: The parlor's crystal chandeleir tinkles. A tea cup and saucer tremble for a moment. Stephanie's eyes search the room.
SOMETHING UNSEEN: emits a wheezing breath. We hear FOOTSTEPS as something walks on the ceiling above A MAN'S LOUD LAUGHTER echoes about the room.
SCRATCH SCRATCH!: Stephanie grips the table. And just when the SCRATCHING SOUND is deafening. All becomes silent. Stephanie holds her breath. A wind whips up in the room sending papers whirling about,. yet all the windows are closed. Shaun San Dena's eyes roll up into her head. She emits a low and powerful MOAN. Her head slumps onto her shoulders. Then she straightens with a new vigor. Stephanie and Rham Jas watch as her lips move rapidly and a garbled sound comes out of her throat. she speaks in a strange and incomprehensible RHAM JAS Who now inhabits the body of Shaun San Dena?
RHAM JAS: Who now inhabits the body of Shaun San Dena?
STEPHANIE: It was my manager, Jim Jacks. He was the one ! He
RHAM JAS: Silence! Lamia, please, surely we can dissuade you from taking this insignificant woman? Surely she's not worthy of your greatness. The possessed Shaun San Dena laughs.
GOAT: ( demonic voice ) tricked me! The possessed goat emits a terrible cry! The bone chilling SHRIEK of Lamia! It's oval eye reflects the blade as it descends toward it. The possessed Goat jerks aside and the blade misses, slicing into the chair. As Milos raises the blade for another blow, the goat bites his hand. In that moment, the spirit of the Lamia is transferred to him. A Possessed Milos SCREAMS and spins toward Stephanie, glaring at her with black goat eyes. He SHOUTS at her in a gibberish of tongues! His body jerks up into the air. He dances a jig atop the table, now laughing uncontrollably. Stephanie watches in horror.
RHAM JAS: Lamial I command you to leave this A chair sails through the air and shatters across Rham Jas' back, knocking him to the ground. Milos' body is hurled up against the chandelier, shattering it. Glass rains down upon Stephanie. on the ceiling, Milos is spun.about like a pin wheel. Stephanie races for the door but a .huge bureau lurches in front of her, blocking her path. Rham Jas rouses a stunned Shaun San Dena.
RHAM JAS: You must banish the spirit! Shaun San Dena places her hands on her ayes, then over her heart and chants an ancient Gypsy incantation up toward Milos SHRIEKS. A white vapor streams from his body as the Lamia is torn from him.
MILOS: ( in his normal voice ) Stop the chanting. I beg you! But Shaun San Dena only chants louder. Milos SCREAMS grow more intense as-his body spasms in pain. Stephanie grasps at Shaun San Dena.
STEPHANIE: For god's sake, stop the chanting, it's killing him! Rham Jas pushes her aside.
RHAM JAS: You must not stop! A withered pair of hands reach down from above and clutch at Stephanie's face! It is Mrs. Ganush that now floats above her! Her long yellowed fingernails scratching at Stephanie's MILOS/MRS. GANUSH Make her stop, you dirty pork No! Get her off! Mrs. Ganush grabs at Stephanie's head. Stephanie pulls away but it costs her a clump of hair that Mrs. Ganush rips from her head. Mrs. Ganush opens her mouth. wide. wider still. she vomits out Stephanie's dead cat. It lands atop the table. Stephanie screams uncontrollably. Shaun San Dena, is trembling as her chanting comes to a Mrs. Ganush changes back to the possessed Milo. The last of the white vapor is torn from Milos body as the spirit of the Lamia leaves him. Milos falls to the floor and all is quiet. An ashen faced Shaun San Dena halts her chant.
STEPHANIE: No! Get her off! Mrs. Ganush grabs at Stephanie's head. Stephanie pulls away but it costs her a clump of hair that Mrs. Ganush rips from her head. Mrs. Ganush opens her mouth. wide. wider still. she vomits out Stephanie's dead cat. It lands atop the table. Stephanie screams uncontrollably. Shaun San Dena, is trembling as her chanting comes to a Mrs. Ganush changes back to the possessed Milo. The last of the white vapor is torn from Milos body as the spirit of the Lamia leaves him. Milos falls to the floor and all is quiet. An ashen faced Shaun San Dena halts her chant.
10 STEPHANIE: Is it gone? Stephanie notices that the cat has vanished. Was it ever Rham Jae kneels at Milos' side. He's starting to come around. Milos stands, shaken. The Lamia is gone. Shaun San Dena grabs at her chest, struggles for breath. Stephanie rushes over to steady her.
STEPHANIE: Let me help you.
RHAM JAS: Milos, call an ambulance!
RHAM JAS: She's not breathing. Rham Jas attempts to administer CPR to no avail.
STEPHANIE: My God. My God. He checks her pulse one last time. The CPR is finally halted. Rham Jas closes her eyes, then touches her forehead, praying:
RHAM JAS: Gata, gata, para gata. bodhi suaha. Gone, gone, gone beyond. Gone beyond the beyond. Hail the EXT. PASADENA HOUSE - NIGHT - LATER Stephanie and Rham Jas watch as PARAMEDICS load the covered body of Shaun San Dena into the ambulance. They close the doors and drive away.
STEPHANIE: It's sad:
RHAM JAS: Strange how things work out. She waited years for another chance to overcome the lamia ..and finally she did.
STEPHANIE: Strange how things work out. She waited years for another chance to overcome the lamia ..and finally she did.
RHAM JAS: No. I'm afraid you misunderstand. Rham Jas looks at her with pity.
STEPHANIE: RHAM JAS The,Lamia can not'be banished by a medium. This was our lesson tonight. I'm sorry.
RHAM JAS: The,Lamia can not'be banished by a medium. This was our lesson tonight. I'm sorry.
STEPHANIE: But I saw her get rid of the RHAM JAS No. You saw her drive the Lamia from the seance. That is all. It will be back.
RHAM JAS: No. You saw her drive the Lamia from the seance. That is all. It will be back.
STEPHANIE: But then, what am I supposed to do? Rham Jas shrugs. He fishes in his pocket for his car keys.
RHAM JAS: Perhaps on this final evening, you should finish up the business of this world. For before the night is through, the Lamia will come for the owner of the accursed object.
STEPHANIE'S HAND: Slowly emerges from her coat pocket. She studies the thin brass button in her palm. 0
RHAM JAS: Unless, of course. you were no longer the owner.
STEPHANIE: No longer the owner? I don't Rham Jas reaches into his coat pocket and removes a blank envelope. He places the button within and seals it.
RHAM JAS: The Lamia comes for the owner of the accursed object. Just make a gift of it. To demonstrate, he hands the envelope to Stephanie.
RHAM JAS: .and you've given away the curse.
STEPHANIE: Why didn't you tell me this RHAM JAS Because we are speaking of murder. Stephanie looks from the envelope containing the button to Rham Jas. She places the envelope carefully into the side 'pocket of her purse. Rham Jas tries to conceal the sadness and fear he feels for her.
RHAM JAS: Because we are speaking of murder. Stephanie looks from the envelope containing the button to Rham Jas. She places the envelope carefully into the side 'pocket of her purse. Rham Jas tries to conceal the sadness and fear he feels for her.
RHAM JAS: Whatever you decide, you have until She nods goodbye as Ray's car pulls up. Ray opens the door. for her and she gets in.
RAY: Is it over? Stephanie, stares at her envelope, thinks about telling him, Yes. It's all over. Ray squeezes her hand. Appreciating the two of them now more than ever. Stephanie SCREAMS as. MRS. GANUSH.appears in the headlights, standing on the road before them! Ray hits the breaks. The car SCREECHES to a Stephanie's purse with the envelope and.some of Ray's papers fall to the floor.
STEPHANIE: Yes. It's all over. Ray squeezes her hand. Appreciating the two of them now more than ever. Stephanie SCREAMS as. MRS. GANUSH.appears in the headlights, standing on the road before them! Ray hits the breaks. The car SCREECHES to a Stephanie's purse with the envelope and.some of Ray's papers fall to the floor.
RAY: Are you okay? Stephanie nods, catching her breath.
RAY: That guy came out of nowhere. Stephanie looks to the figure in the road. Mrs. Ganush is gone. In her place is an old man who mutters angrily at them and moves on.
R: That guy came out of nowhere. Stephanie looks to the figure in the road. Mrs. Ganush is gone. In her place is an old man who mutters angrily at them and moves on.
RAY: Are you'still okay about the Santa Barbara trip?
STEPHANIE: Yes, everything's fine.
RAY: Okay. Our train leaves tomorrow morning. Seven A.M. When do you want me to pick you up?
STEPHANIE: It's better if we meet at the D station. There's something I've got to do on the way. Stephanie suddenly' clutches at her purse. The envelope is Wait! Where's my envelope?
STEPHANIE: Wait! Where's my envelope?
RAY: What envelope? She opens the car door and frantically rummages around the floor, through Ray's papers.
STEPHANIE: It's got to be here! Then, Stephanie comes upon something under the seat. She smiles and stands. A white envelope held tightly in her Got , it .
STEPHANIE: Got , it .
RAY: Tomorrow's gonna be a new start for, us. Don't be late. They kiss and Ray drives off.
STEPHANIE: drinks coffee and stares at the white envelope that's tucked into the side pocket of her purse. She scans the patrons and considers giving it to each of them, then one by one, rejects the idea.
A WAITRESS: Comes by, removes a dirty dish and refills her coffee.
STEPHANIE: Banana Boat Sundae.
WAITRESS: Another one? Stephanie nods absently. The waitress exits.
STEPHANIE: takes a deep breath, stands and walks to his table.
STEPHANIE: I wonder if you could help me out? The Old Man looks up, sees her desperation.
STEPHANIE: I just need you to hang on to this envelope for me. Just until She extends the envelope to him. He hesitates.
OLD MAN: What's this all about?
STEPHANIE: Just take the envelope and I'll explain. Please. The Old Man considers. He reaches for the envelope when an OLD WOMAN, his wife, hobbles toward the table. The Old Man helps her sit and puts away her cane. They turn to Stephanie who withdraws the envelope.
STEPHANIE: Never mind. Stephanie returns to her seat, ashamed at what she almost She returns the envelope to the purse pocket, racking her brains, trying to think of some way out of this. Her gaze lands upon a stack of newspapers on the next table. She grabs the paper and finds the OBITUARIES.
STEPHANIE: Well? Is it possible? 0
FA: He closes the book and gives it some thought.
RHAM JAS: There are Gypsy blessings that are bestowed upon the dead. And the Gypsies give gifts to their departed to curry favor with the deceased soul. Yes. I do believe you could give the curse to someone who has passed on. for truly, the soul never dies.
STEPHANIE: .I'll shove it down her goddamn She zips up her raincoat. SOMETHING flits past the window. Too.quick to.see. Then it reappears. It's Mrs. Ganush's hankie. It.flies against Stephanie's windshield and gets caught on the wiper blade. Stephanie GASPS. It flaps in the wind, blocking her view. Stephanie hits the wiper button. The hankie is yanked-back and forth across the windshield.
T: She turns up the wiper speed. No sooner is it knocked loose than it's whisked into the driver's side window. It slaps over Stephanie's eyes, plastered there by the'wind! The car Her car crashes into a tree.
STEPHANIE: I'm giving it back to you. She grabs Mrs. Ganush's hand and tries to get her clenched fist to open, but rigor morris has locked it shut. Stephanie pulls with all her might, causing.
STEPHANIE: You'll take it, all right. She picks up the shovel and jams the blade into the old woman's mouth, wedging it between her teeth. She pries the jaw open. Mud and rivulets of water begin pouring down into the grave from all sides. The body of Mrs. Ganush is quickly being re-buried.
STEPHANIE: I, Stephanie Brown, do hereby make a formal gift of this button to you, Sylvia Ganush. She jams the white envelope down the old woman's throat.
STEPHANIE: Choke on it, bitch. She kicks the old woman's jaw.. It SNAPS shut, trapping the envelope between her broken teeth. Muddy water cascades down into the grave, flowing over Mrs.. Ganush's face. It covers everything, except the jutting envelope and a single, staring white eye. Stephanie tries to climb out but the walls are too slick. She grabs at a clump of sod at the top of the hole but it tears away, unleashing an avalanche of mud that buries her up to her armpits.
STEPHANIE'S HAND: rips up through the mud, grasping the tree root.
STEPHANIE'S HEAD: Breaks the surface of the mud, sucking in air. She claws her way out, then staggers away, through the pouring rain.
MR JACKS: ( V.O. ) It looks like the loan's coming back to us. And I just wanted you to know that come Monday morning, that assistant manager's position will be waiting for you.
STEPHANIE: Hey! Good morning.
NO 4: The Saleswoman opens the door a crack. I'm sorry, we're not open yet.
SALESWOMAN: I'm sorry, we're not open yet.
STEPHANIE: Please. I know what I want. That coat in the window. The Saleswoman considers.
STEPHANIE: My boyfriend and I are taking a very special trip this morning. Stephanie's smile is bright. Her joy is contagious. The Saleswoman relents and lets Stephanie in.
STEPHANIE: Ray embraces her and grabs her luggage. A TRAIN WHISTLE sounds as the train approaches.
RAY: Is everything okay?
STEPHANIE: I'm so glad you're here. There's so much I've been meaning to tell you. 0 She takes his hand. 0
RAY: I'm so glad you're here. There's so much I've been meaning to tell you. 0 She takes his hand. 0
STEPHANIE: But let me say this first while I have it straight in my head. You never stopped believing in me. I'll try and live up to that. They share an intimate moment. A romantic kiss. He breaks off and smiles.
RAY: Did I tell you, you look great?
STEPHANIE: Stephanie models her new coat.
STEPHANIE: You like it? It's brand new.
RAY: What'd you do with your old coat? Just the mention of it, makes her face darken.
STEPHANIE: I got rid of it. I never want to see it again.
RAY: Too bad,'cause I just found this. Ray produces the envelope. And from it, withdraws. THE
CURSED BUTTON!: CAMERA RACES INTO A HUGE CLOSE UP OF THE BUTTON with a terrible CLASHING of symbols!. Stephanie can't breathe.
RAY: Yeah, it was in my car. Hey, have you seen my Indian Head nickel? I put it in an envelope just like this one. Stephanie stares at the button, shaking her head in disbelief. The RUMBLING of the approaching train builds on the sound track.
RAY: What? What is it? She backs away in horror, but Ray follows her with the button still in his hand. The RUMBLING grows louder. She's backing up toward the edge of the platform.
RAY: Stephanie. Stop! Ray steps forward, still holding out the button. Stephanie SHRIEKS as she falls backwards, off the platform and onto the In her last moment of life, she turns her head to see.
THE BUTTON: still in his hand.
THE END: Writers : Ivan Raimi Sam Raimi
