DRIVE: Written by Hossein Amini Based on the novel by James Sallis
SHANNON: .Plain Jane cheap like you asked for but with a hundred and sixty horsepower inside. You get any sleep?
DRIVER: Not this week. As Shannon grins we feel the familiarity between them.
SHANNON: I can offer you some Halcyon.
DRIVER: Won't work. They head past more cars Fords, Dodges, Buicks until they arrive at a plain looking Impala.
SHANNON: There she is. Silver Impala. Most popular car in the state of California. Driver casts his eyes over the unimpressive vehicle then holds out his hand for the keys.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .This is some comeback from the Clippers! Only a few minutes ago they looked dead and Driver reaches under the seat and pulls out a small handheld scanner. He switches it on, tuning it to the right frequency. Crackling police dispatches are interspersed with the basketball commentary now.
POLICE SCANNER: .9 Adam 81, what is your current location?.Repeat, what is your current .Another unbelievable three pointer from Davis and the Clippers are within five!. Out of the corner of his eye Driver sees two MEN approach. He doesn't react, expecting them. They cut through the fence with bolt cutters and approach the main building. Driver watches them pull on their masks, then one of them takes out a shotgun and blasts the lock to the front door. Instantly the alarm shrills. The only thing Driver does is to turn on his stop watch.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .Another unbelievable three pointer from Davis and the Clippers are within five!. Out of the corner of his eye Driver sees two MEN approach. He doesn't react, expecting them. They cut through the fence with bolt cutters and approach the main building. Driver watches them pull on their masks, then one of them takes out a shotgun and blasts the lock to the front door. Instantly the alarm shrills. The only thing Driver does is to turn on his stop watch.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .Time out Knicks. The stop watching keeps ticking away, the siren blaring, the commentary continuing, the police scanner crackling. The storefront is hidden in shadow, impossible to tell what's going on inside. Driver looks at his stop watch. Almost three minutes. One of the masked men emerges now, carrying a duffel bag. He hurries over and gets in the back of Driver's car without a word. There's no sign of the other robber.
POLICE SCANNER: .Attention all units.211.Superstore on Traction Avenue.Suspects headed Eastbound on 1st Street.Driving a Silver Driver swings sharply into 4th Street now, crossing the L.A. River again, heading back in the same direction he came.
POLICE SCANNER: .Airships dispatched.Downtown and Boyle Heights.All units standby. Repeat, all units standby. Up ahead, the lights of Downtown L.A. glitter against the night sky. Hovering between the neon green glow of the skyscrapers Driver sees the red and white glint of a police helicopter. He switches off his headlights, turning left on Santa Fe Avenue.
POLICE SCANNER: .1 Baker 11, headed south on Boyle Avenue.No sign of suspects.Repeat, no sign of suspects. The armed robbers look relieved when suddenly a police car glides past at the end of the alleyway, its lights also off.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .And for the first time in the game the Clippers have the lead. 71 to 69. Seven to go in the Fourth here at the Staples Driver turns the sound back down. Up ahead, the police car swings left, disappearing from view. Driver slows down too, anticipating the next obstacle. He doesn't have long to wait. In the distance he suddenly sees the piercing beam of a police chopper's search-lights, sweeping the area one more time. Driver floors the gas, speeding straight towards the approaching helicopter. The armed robbers are too stunned to protest. They just sit there, watching the sweeping searchlights getting closer and closer. Then suddenly it becomes clear what Driver's doing. Up ahead, there's a small underpass below the 7th Street bridge. Driver slides the car under the safety of the bridge just before the chopper's searchlights spot them.
DRIVER: Get down.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .Three thirteen left on the clock. Dunleavy calls a time out and it's the Clippers by one. The passing head-lamps light up Driver's face. There's not a trace of emotion in his eyes even when he spots a patrol car approaching in the opposite direction.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .Buckle up your seat belts Clippers fans. This game really is too close to call. The two cars pass each other slowly. Driver sees the cops in the Black-and-White peering at the Impala as they head past. He turns down the basketball game and focuses on the scanner.
POLICE SCANNER: .This is 1 David 16.Silver Impala headed South on Broadway and Pico.Couldn't get a look at her license plates.Appears to be only one occupant. In the back seat, the armed robbers wait nervously for the police dispatch to respond.
POLICE SCANNER: .1 David 16.why don't you check her As soon as he hears this Driver swerves sharply into the next 18 INT/ EXT. IMPALA/ SIDESTREET OFF BROADWAY/ DOWNTOWN - NIGHT. 18 Driver guns around the block now, building up speed.
POLICE SCANNER: .This is 1 David 16.We lost the suspect somewhere between Broadway and Grand.Possible evasive action.Request airship and additional units.
POLICE SCANNER: .1 David 11.suspect headed West on Driver threads his way through the vehicles in front of him, so smooth and effortless it's hard to tell how fast he's going. He glances up as he hears the dull rumble of a police chopper overhead. The helicopter is almost directly above him, swinging its search-beam back and forth to get a lock on his position. Driver pushes the car as fast as it will go, but there's no way of outrunning the chopper. Blue light floods the asphalt around him as he guns down Figueroa.
POLICE SCANNER: All units.pursuit in progress.silver Impala.Headed North on Figueroa. Even now Driver doesn't panic, turning his attention back to the basketball game.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: Thornton pulls up from behind the arc, misses. Rebound New York. One eighteen to Driver swerves sharply towards the sparkling lights of the Staples Centre.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .Thirty seconds remaining and all the Knicks have to do is run out the clock. Driver glances in his side mirror. Behind him, dozens of FANS are already streaming out into the parking lot before the game is over, hoping to avoid the inevitable traffic.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .Gordon back to Davis.Davis for three.This is unbelievable!. The jubilant commentary continues, but Driver isn't listening anymore. The game has served its purpose. More fans flood into the parking lot. Dozens of cars pull out of their places.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY: .What a remarkable comeback.Outplayed for most of the game, the Clippers have shown incredible resilience. Driver glances at the armed robbers and nods. It's time. They climb out of the car, merging in with the crowd. Driver watches them disappear, then slips on a Clippers cap, climbs out of the Impala himself and heads towards another car.
SHANNON: .This is a whole new thing. He taps the fender any faster than fifty not only will she roll, she'll roll all the way to Baja. Driver heads off, disinterested in the negotiations.
SHANNON: A high risk stunt like that's worth at least a thousand five.
AD: They won't go higher than a thousand.
SHANNON: For all his charm we sense something of the hustler about 25 EXT. CRAFT TABLE/ FILM SET/ SAN PEDRO/ LOS ANGELES - DAY. 25 Driver approaches a buffet table laid out with food. He's about to help himself when JACK, the caterer, stops him.
JACK: Sorry, that's for the director.
SHANNON: I managed to get them up to five hundred. Driver doesn't seem to care, focussed on the job.
SHANNON: Nice work, officer. Driver spits out some fake candyglass from the shattered 27 INT. NINO'S PIZZERIA/ WESTWOOD - DAY. 27 A New York style pizza-by-the-slice restaurant. A WAITER takes a delivery of Chinese food at the door and carries it over to a table where Shannon is sitting with an old friend, BERNIE ROSE.
WAITER: Here you go, Mr. Rose. ( Taking out the white boxes ) Egg rolls, chicken chow mein, five flavor shrimp and Peking duck.
BERNIE ROSE: Did they remember the chop sticks?
WAITER: Doesn't look like it, sir. Let me run and get the guy. From the way the waiter hurries off we get a sense of Bernie's power and authority. He turns back to Shannon, resuming their .You run a perfectly good business. Why would you want to change now?
BERNIE ROSE: .You run a perfectly good business. Why would you want to change now?
SHANNON: You know how much my business made last year? Thirty Grand. Takes me six months to build a car and a couple of seconds for these jerks to write it off on a stunt that doesn't even make it into the movie. Bernie shakes his head but clearly has a soft spot for Shannon.
BERNIE ROSE: How much do you need?
SHANNON: Let me talk you through it first.
BERNIE ROSE: That sounds like a lot.
SHANNON: Doesn't have to be. The big money teams burn through three, four million a year but that's `cause they're using half a dozen test drivers and a stable of cars.
BERNIE ROSE: I don't know anything about car racing but I assume there's a reason for that?
SHANNON: Sure, but it's not the only way. All I need is a hard-used stock car. We start off with the small-town action then work our way up. There's close to two thousand events out there and once we make the Show we're talking millions.
BERNIE ROSE: There's a fortune to be made. Sponsorship. TV deals. We'll even name the team after Bernie looks at his friend in mild exasperation then turns away as the waiter returns with a handful of chop sticks.
SHANNON: There's a fortune to be made. Sponsorship. TV deals. We'll even name the team after Bernie looks at his friend in mild exasperation then turns away as the waiter returns with a handful of chop sticks.
BERNIE ROSE: Thank you, Ron. You sure you don't want any of this?
SHANNON: No, thanks. Bernie waits for the waiter to leave then continues.
BERNIE ROSE: You still haven't given me a number? Shannon hesitates but only for a second.
SHANNON: Four hundred and thirty thousand dollars. Bernie Rose can't help grinning at his nerve.
SHANNON: Look, I wouldn't come to you unless I was sure about this.
BERNIE ROSE: Come on, Shannon. How can you be sure? What have you got these big money teams don't I got a driver.
SHANNON: I got a driver.
BERNIE ROSE: And they got half a dozen Drivers you told Not like this one. He stares at his friend with quiet conviction.
SHANNON: Not like this one. He stares at his friend with quiet conviction.
SHANNON: I been working with this guy a long time - I've never seen anything like it. I had the money I'd back him myself. Bernie Rose considers him quietly.
BERNIE ROSE: But you don't have the money.
SHANNON: Everything I own is in metal. I had to sell my Bullit car the other day just to pay the gas bill. I'm telling you, Bernie, put this kid behind a wheel there's nothing he can't And what happens to my money if this kid gets hit by a bus? Shannon's about to reply when they're interrupted by a big bull of a man with a gruff voice.
BERNIE ROSE: And what happens to my money if this kid gets hit by a bus? Shannon's about to reply when they're interrupted by a big bull of a man with a gruff voice.
NINO: What are you doing eating Chink food in my What's a Jew doing running a Pizzeria? Worst fucking pizza in LA by the way. How hard is it to bake a loaf of bread?
BERNIE ROSE: What's a Jew doing running a Pizzeria? Worst fucking pizza in LA by the way. How hard is it to bake a loaf of bread?
NINO: It's the fucking water in this city. Shannon smiles, intimidated by Nino, giving up his seat respectfully. Nino doesn't even acknowledge him.
BERNIE ROSE: I thought you were supposed to be out of town anyway?
NINO: Well, I'm back. ( Barely a glance at Shannon ) Take a hike. I need to talk to my partner.
BERNIE ROSE: Be polite, Nino. I invited him here.
NINO: Oh, I'm sorry. How you doing, Shannon? How's the fucking leg? Bernie senses things are only going to get worse and dismisses Shannon gently.
BERNIE ROSE: I'll think about it but I want to meet your guy first.
DRIVER: Which floor, ma'am?.
IRENE: Fourth please. Driver presses the fourth floor button even though it's already lit. The doors shut and the elevator starts to climb. Driver stares out quietly. Irene takes a glance at him, feeling awkward in the silence. She looks relieved as the elevator doors finally open. Driver steps aside to let her out first.
IRENE: Thank you.
IRENE: Goodbye, ma'am. Driver looks at her just long enough not to seem impolite, then continues down the corridor, not even glancing back.
DRIVER: Goodbye, ma'am. Driver looks at her just long enough not to seem impolite, then continues down the corridor, not even glancing back.
BERNIE ROSE: Looks like a chocolate bar. You're gonna have to tell me if that's fast or slow `cause I got no idea. Shannon smiles to himself.
SHANNON: It ain't slow.
SHANNON: ( Playing hard to get ) Maybe where you come from. Bernie Rose pays no attention to their banter, his eyes fixed thoughtfully on the stock car as it finally slows to a stop.
SHANNON: Looks a little long in the tooth to me. Think we should take her home?. Driver shrugs. Shannon grins, turning to Bernie now.
SHANNON: Bernie, this is the driver I been telling you about. One look at Bernie Rose and Driver senses the power and authority behind his deceptively gentle eyes.
SHANNON: Bernie's thinking of investing in our race The old mobster holds out his hand, meeting Driver's gaze.
DRIVER: My hands are a little dirty.
BERNIE ROSE: Don't worry. So are mine.
DRIVER: You might wanna take a look at the suspension before we go again. ( Turning back to Bernie ) Nice to meet you. Bernie's still studying him.
BERNIE ROSE: You too. Their eyes stay on each other, then Driver follows the stock car owner and his mechanics back to the car. Bernie Rose stares after him quietly, thinking to himself. Shannon can feel he's getting interested.
SHANNON: You gonna give me the four?
BERNIE ROSE: I'll give you three for seventy percent.
DRIVER: Where do you want me to put them?
IRENE: Just over there. Thanks. Driver places the bags on the kitchen counter.
IRENE: Would you like something to drink?
DRIVER: I'm okay.
IRENE: A glass of water?
DRIVER: She pours him a glass of water and hands it to him.
IRENE: Excuse me a second. She walks out of the room, leaving Driver alone with Benicio. The little boy stares at him fixedly. 36a INT. BATHROOM/ IRENE'S APARTMENT - DAY. 36a Irene closes the bathroom door behind her, looking at herself in the mirror, feeling a little uncertain.
IRENE: You just move to LA?
DRIVER: No, I been here a while.
IRENE: And before that?
DRIVER: Here and there.
IRENE: ( A gentle smile ) Too many questions, huh?. Driver smiles back awkwardly, not sure how else to respond. Irene switches on the TV for Benicio, sitting him down on the Driver has a sip of water, glancing around the room. He notices a few photographs on a side table. Most of them are of Benicio and Irene, but one of them shows the little boy standing next to a strikingly handsome Latino man. Irene turns around and sees him looking at the picture.
IRENE: That's Benicio's father. Driver takes in the significance of this, then looks back at What's he do?
DRIVER: What's he do?
IRENE: He's in jail.
DRIVER: I'm sorry.
IRENE: ( Changing the subject ) What do you do? Driver hesitates.
DRIVER: I drive.
IRENE: Like a limo driver?
DRIVER: No, for the movies.
IRENE: ( INCREDULOUSLY )
IRENE: Isn't that dangerous? He seems thrown by her concern.
DRIVER: It's just part-time. Most days I work in a Reseda Boulevard.
IRENE: Reseda Boulevard.
DRIVER: Reseda Boulevard.
IRENE: You should tell Benicio you're a stunt guy.
DRIVER: He interested in that kind of stuff?
IRENE: Aren't all little boys? She smiles softly and he realizes she's teasing him.
IRENE: Would you like another glass?
DRIVER: I should get going. He catches the disappointment in her eyes, but she covers it with another good humored smile.
IRENE: Well, thank you for your help.
DRIVER: Thank you for the drink. She takes his empty glass and walks him to the door.
BEARDED REDNECK: You're Shannon's buddy, right? We met last year. You drove me and my brother back from Palm Springs.
BEARDED REDNECK: Next run we hired another wheelman - I spent six months in jail, my brother got himself killed. ( He grins through yellowing teeth ) He wasn't much, mind you, just family. Driver doesn't seem to hear him.
BEARDED REDNECK: Thing is -
DRIVER: I'm not interested. Driver looks up quietly, fixing him with his icy gaze. The Redneck's smile slowly fades. He considers his response for a moment, then decides against it, standing up.
BEARDED REDNECK: Well, it's good to see you again. Driver carries on eating as if the man didn't exist.
SHANNON: Sounds like a goddamn M-16. Driver smiles, popping the hood. As Shannon limps out of the vehicle he sees a battered Oldsmobile drive into the forecourt. He takes one look at the owner, then runs his hand through his white hair, breaking into a friendly smile.
SHANNON: Gorgeous day just got even nicer. How can I help you, ma'am?
IRENE: A mischievous smile lights up Shannon's face as he watches them.
DRIVER: A mischievous smile lights up Shannon's face as he watches them.
SHANNON: You boys and girls know each other?
IRENE: We're neighbors.
SHANNON: I see. Driver ignores the sly look in the old man's eyes.
SHANNON: So what seems to be the problem, ma'am?
IRENE: Either it doesn't start or it stalls.
SHANNON: Well, why don't we park her over there and take a look. Driver is still watching Irene quietly.
IRENE: I can come back later if you're busy.
SHANNON: He's busy, I'm not. Shannon gives Driver another sly look as he takes her car keys.
SHANNON: .Just my opinion, but I think you should consider buying a new car.
IRENE: ( With gentle irony ) That would be great. She glances round and sees Benicio standing in the forecourt with Driver, watching him work on his own car now.
BENICIO: That thing doesn't work.
DRIVER: ( Without looking round ) You think? Benicio watches him sullenly, more intrigued than he lets on.
BENICIO: Drive it.
DRIVER: Okay. Get in the car. Benicio considers a moment, then turns and calls out to Irene.
BENICIO: Mama, can I go in the car?! Irene looks over in surprise, not sure what to say.
DRIVER: Your mom said you like movies?
BENICIO: Ever see the Terminator?
DRIVER: Ever see the Terminator?
BENICIO: Benicio shakes his head.
DRIVER: Benicio shakes his head.
DRIVER: Wanna see where it was shot?
IRENE: How long has he been working for you?
SHANNON: Don't worry, ma'am, your son'll be fine.
IRENE: I didn't mean it like that. Shannon smiles to himself, sensing her interest in Driver.
SHANNON: We been together about five years now. He showed up out of the blue one day, no references or nothin', asking me for a job. I offered him half the wages I normally pay and he didn't even blink. Been exploiting him ever since.
IRENE: Thank you for today. He had a great time.
DRIVER: I'm glad. He stares back at her in the silence, both of them looking a little uncertain.
IRENE: I'm sorry if I put you on the spot, you know, just showing up like that.
DRIVER: Don't worry. Their eyes stay on each other, the attraction palpable. Driver finally breaks the tension, making a tentative move towards the door. Irene opens it for him, looking up into his eyes. Driver knows he could kiss her, wants to, but something inside holds him back. Instead he just offers his help.
DRIVER: You need a ride anywhere over the weekend I'm not doing much. 50a INT. DENTISTS/ NORTH HOLLYWOOD - DAY. 50a Benicio sits in a dentist's chair, looking nervous. Irene sits beside him, mimicking his expression, trying to make him relax.
SHANNON: .I still can't believe I bought this piece of shit.
SHANNON: I thought maybe we'd take her for a run Thursday or Friday.
DRIVER: I can't make Friday.
SHANNON: Yeah? Why's that?
DRIVER: I told Irene I'd drive her to Burbank.
SHANNON: Irene, huh?
DRIVER: You're taking a long time to fix her car.
DRIVER: What's happening now?
BENICIO: He's telling him if he doesn't leave the earth alone he'll fight him. Irene calls out from her bedroom.
DRIVER: Looks like he's in trouble.
BENICIO: He's okay. Just as the fight begins the color on the TV screen flickers.
DRIVER: I'm gonna show you another trick. Benicio watches curiously as Driver gets off the couch and kneels beside the TV.
DRIVER: This is pretty complicated. You watching? Benicio nods. Driver suddenly gives the TV set a hard smack and the interference stops.
DRIVER: Think you can remember that?. Benicio grins. Driver smiles back then looks away as he hears the phone ring. Irene walks out of her bedroom, dressed in her waitress's uniform, and answers it.
IRENE: Hello?.Yes?.Yes, this is she. Driver sees the look of surprise on Irene's face as she listens to the voice on the other end. The doorbell suddenly rings. Irene catches Driver's eye and asks him to open it. He heads over, checks the spy-hole, then opens the door. A YOUNG WOMAN who's sitting for Benicio walks in, looking at Driver curiously.
DRIVER: Hi Cindy. Irene's friend heads past Driver and scolds Benicio It's 8:30. Teeth. Pyjamas. TV off.
BENICIO: Hi Cindy. Irene's friend heads past Driver and scolds Benicio It's 8:30. Teeth. Pyjamas. TV off.
IRENE'S FRIEND: It's 8:30. Teeth. Pyjamas. TV off.
BENICIO: It's not the TV. It's a DVD. Driver looks back at Irene now. She puts down the phone, forcing a smile but still looking distracted.
IRENE: I've never come this way before.
DRIVER: It's a short cut.
IRENE: The park looks pretty at night. She looks at Driver, watching him quietly, then looks away You okay?. Irene takes a long time to answer, still staring out of the That was my husband's lawyer on the phone. He's getting an early release. She tries to sound casual. Driver takes the news quietly, even though it hits him like a sledgehammer.
DRIVER: You okay?. Irene takes a long time to answer, still staring out of the That was my husband's lawyer on the phone. He's getting an early release. She tries to sound casual. Driver takes the news quietly, even though it hits him like a sledgehammer.
IRENE: That was my husband's lawyer on the phone. He's getting an early release. She tries to sound casual. Driver takes the news quietly, even though it hits him like a sledgehammer.
DRIVER: That's great.
IRENE: I'm happy for Benicio. Driver knows she's trying to explain herself but doesn't say anything, driving in silence. Up ahead the traffic lights turn red and the car slows to a Inside, the silence is unbearable. Irene pauses, then looks at Driver. He's even more handsome in the shadowy half-light, something achingly lonely and melancholy about his stillness. She hesitates, then moves her hand towards his, brushing the back of his hand, then slipping her fingers between his. The gesture is tiny but charged with emotion. They both stare out in silence, fingers clasped, then Irene gently withdraws her hand, as if nothing's happened. Outside the lights change to green.
STANDARD: .I'm touched and grateful that you're all here today even though I know it's probably for the food not me. His self-deprecating humor gets a chorus of laughter and agreement from the guests. Irene is standing next to her friend Cindy, looking a little uncomfortable.
STANDARD: .Anyhow, now that I've completed my MBA in catering from Chino Business School.
STANDARD: I'd like to thank my wife for being the smartest, most beautiful, most patient and loyal woman I know. More applause. Irene stares back at Standard's handsome face, feeling even more uncomfortable.
STANDARD: I'm sorry, I can't hear you. He heads into the bedroom to take the call. The voice on the other end is accented and unfriendly.
STANDARD: ( CONTINUED ) 58 CONTINUED: 58
IRENE: Benicio wants you to put him to bed.
STANDARD: He gives her a warm smile.
IRENE: Who was that on the phone?
STANDARD: My parole officer. He thinks he may have found me a job.
IRENE: He turns around and sees her standing there with a smile.
IRENE: I'm sorry about the noise. I was going to leave a note under your door warning you we were having a party.
DRIVER: Don't worry. I won't complain.
IRENE: I wish you would. Maybe the cops'd show up and send everybody home. Their eyes stay on each other, the music pounding in the The car works great by the way. Hasn't stalled once.
IRENE: The car works great by the way. Hasn't stalled once.
DRIVER: I'm glad. Another awkward silence, so much she wants to say but can't.
IRENE: Listen, if you're hungry we got plenty of
STANDARD: I thought if we emptied the trash everyone would get the message and go home. He grins at his wife, then looks over at Driver, his smile hiding whatever he feels inside.
STANDARD: You're the new neighbor, right? Benicio's told me all about you. Driver seems unsure how to respond.
DRIVER: He's a great kid.
STANDARD: I can't take any of the credit. He's got a great mother. Standard rests his hand gently on Benicio's head, still staring at Driver.
STANDARD: He tells me you drive for the movies?
DRIVER: Must be pretty good?
STANDARD: Must be pretty good?
DRIVER: I get by.
STANDARD: Not like a nine to five gig, huh?.
IRENE: You want me to take that?
STANDARD: No, we got it. His eyes are still fixed on Driver.
STANDARD: You want to come in, join us for a drink?
DRIVER: I've got some things to do.
STANDARD: At this hour of night?
IRENE: Standard, he's busy. Standard doesn't respond, still holding Driver's gaze.
STANDARD: Well, if we're still going by the time you're back you know where we are. It's good to meet you. He slips his arm around his son now and continues down the corridor, brushing past Driver on his way to empty the trash. Driver looks at Irene, then heads off in the same direction as Standard and Benicio to take the elevator. The two men stand there in charged silence, one emptying the trash, the other waiting for the elevator, only Benicio oblivious to the tension.
NINO: .We paid three hundred fucking grand for I paid for it. Out of my own pocket. Anyway, that's just the shell. You start with the shell, then you build the frame, then the motor. ( Pointing to an engine nearby ) I paid three hundred for that. The money goes on the inside not the outside.
BERNIE ROSE: I paid for it. Out of my own pocket. Anyway, that's just the shell. You start with the shell, then you build the frame, then the motor. ( Pointing to an engine nearby ) I paid three hundred for that. The money goes on the inside not the outside.
NINO: Fuck that. If I'm gonna blow three hundred I wanna make sure everyone can see it. Go waste your money on something else. Shannon smiles nervously, worried Nino's going to sabotage his deal with Bernie.
NINO: ( Pointing to a Thunderbird ) .How about that fucking pussy mobile over You buy it. Shannon sell him the car. At the far end of the garage Driver hears them laughing, too busy working on his car to pay any attention. Shannon opens the door of the Thunderbird and invites Nino to take a seat.
BERNIE ROSE: You buy it. Shannon sell him the car. At the far end of the garage Driver hears them laughing, too busy working on his car to pay any attention. Shannon opens the door of the Thunderbird and invites Nino to take a seat.
SHANNON: Try her out. She's more comfortable than a water bed.
NINO: I already got a fucking water bed. He sits heavily in the car and starts prodding and pressing all the control buttons as if he wants to break them.
NINO: What does this fucking thing do?
SHANNON: Windshield wipers.
NINO: How about this little clit? I don't know whether to fuck it or drive it. Fuck it, I'll drive it. Bernie Rose shakes his head at his partner's foul language then looks away, observing Driver quietly. Driver applies a blow torch to his car, so absorbed in his work he doesn't hear Bernie Rose approach.
BERNIE ROSE: So, when's our first race?
DRIVER: BERNIE ROSE
BERNIE ROSE: You gonna be ready? There's something gently challenging in his gaze.
DRIVER: I hope so.
BERNIE ROSE: Cautious man. Like myself. Don't wanna make promises you can't keep. Driver smiles but doesn't respond. Bernie Rose finds him as hard to talk to as everyone else. Across the garage, Nino sits in the T-Bird with Shannon, still fucking with him. Bernie watches He ever tell you how we met?
BERNIE ROSE: He ever tell you how we met?
BERNIE ROSE: I did some producing back in the 80's. Interesting pictures. Kind of European. Shannon arranged the cars for us and did all the stunts. I knew he was overcharging me but I loved having him around. His next business venture he tried the same thing with some of Nino's friends they broke his spine. He never had much luck. He's about to continue when they're interrupted by a familiar STANDARD O/S Driver turns around and sees Irene's husband, Standard, heading towards him with a confident smile.
STANDARD: You got a minute? I want to -
BERNIE ROSE: We're talking. Bernie Rose barely raises his voice but it's full of quiet menace and authority. Standard pauses, stung, but instinctively senses this is someone you don't mess with.
STANDARD: I'll wait outside. Bernie Rose watches him leave with a look of contempt, then turns back to Driver with a smile, resuming their conversation.
BERNIE ROSE: The reason I'm telling you this is because he's got a lot invested in you. So do I. Their eyes stay on each other with just a hint of tension.
BERNIE ROSE: Anything you need just let me know. Driver nods. Bernie Rose studies him a moment, then finally walks away.
STANDARD: Irene told me you'd fixed our car. How much do I owe you?
DRIVER: Don't worry about it.
STANDARD: I do worry. I like to pay my debts. Driver senses the quiet pride in his voice, and lets it go.
DRIVER: Call it fifty. Standard counts out some bills from his tattered wallet, his eyes lowered.
STANDARD: I was thinking of trading her in for a new car. Something fast and cheap.
DRIVER: You can't have both.
STANDARD: Alright then, fast. Even though he smiles Driver senses just a hint of tension on his handsome face.
DRIVER: ( Pointing to a car ) Something like that Buick over there'll cost you nine grand but there isn't much point in a city where you can't drive faster than sixty five. Standard considers the car a moment, something clearly bothering him, then looks back at Driver.
STANDARD: You must think I'm an asshole? Driver isn't sure what he's getting at.
DRIVER: I wouldn't know.
STANDARD: Well, I am. Six months inside for holding somebody else's stolen shit. He smiles ironically, his gaze still fixed on Driver.
STANDARD: I appreciate what you did for my family when I was away but I don't plan to fuck up a second time. It's a thinly veiled message that he's back and here to stay. Driver stares back at him when Shannon emerges from the garage with Bernie Rose and Nino, calling out.
SHANNON: Hey, kid! Come say goodbye, the money people are leaving!. Driver and Standard stare at each other a moment longer then Driver breaks off.
DRIVER: Excuse me.
STANDARD: See you around. Driver walks off, leaving Standard alone with his thoughts. Shannon watches Standard curiously as Driver approaches.
SHANNON: Who was that?
DRIVER: Irene's husband.
SHANNON: ( GRINNING )
NINO: What the fuck do you know about married Can you for once say something without the word fuck in it? As they continue their banter, Driver glances at Standard. He's walking back to his car, dialling someone on his cell phone.
BERNIE ROSE: Can you for once say something without the word fuck in it? As they continue their banter, Driver glances at Standard. He's walking back to his car, dialling someone on his cell phone.
IRENE: Their eyes stay on each other, oblivious to the noise.
DRIVER: Their eyes stay on each other, oblivious to the noise.
IRENE: We haven't seen you around in a while. You must have been pretty busy?.
DRIVER: You look pretty busy yourself. She smiles, glancing at the tables she's supposed to serve.
IRENE: What can I get you?
DRIVER: I already ate. I just wanted to see how you His concern touches her and makes her uncomfortable at the same We're okay. Standard thinks he may have found a job so I can give up my night Driver stares back at her with his intense gaze.
IRENE: We're okay. Standard thinks he may have found a job so I can give up my night Driver stares back at her with his intense gaze.
IRENE: Benicio misses you. From the way she says it she could almost be talking about He keeps asking me to invite you for I'd like that. His gentle gaze is finally too much for her. She grins, excusing I better serve some food. It's only when she has her back turned that we see how hard this is for her. Driver watches her walk away, lost in thought.
IRENE: He keeps asking me to invite you for I'd like that. His gentle gaze is finally too much for her. She grins, excusing I better serve some food. It's only when she has her back turned that we see how hard this is for her. Driver watches her walk away, lost in thought.
DRIVER: I'd like that. His gentle gaze is finally too much for her. She grins, excusing I better serve some food. It's only when she has her back turned that we see how hard this is for her. Driver watches her walk away, lost in thought.
IRENE: I better serve some food. It's only when she has her back turned that we see how hard this is for her. Driver watches her walk away, lost in thought.
DRIVER: Can you move?
STANDARD: Where's Benicio?
DRIVER: He's right here. Driver glances at Benicio. He looks terrified. Standard raises his head painfully and looks at his son.
STANDARD: It's okay, Benicio. I'm okay. Driver watches the boy struggling to hold back his tears.
STANDARD: ( GENTLY )
STANDARD: Can I use your bathroom to clean up? I don't want Irene to come home and see me like this.
STANDARD: Thanks. Sorry about getting all this blood He's still shaken but tries to pass it off with a smile.
STANDARD: Fucking punks took me by surprise. Driver watches him, unconvinced.
DRIVER: Fucking punks didn't look like they needed Standard looks at him in surprise now.
STANDARD: You saw them, huh?. Driver doesn't answer, waiting for him to continue. Standard hesitates, still not sure whether to trust him.
STANDARD: You ever been inside?
DRIVER: ( CONTINUED ) 73 CONTINUED: 73
STANDARD: I owed some protection money in the joint. Driver begins to see how worried he is.
DRIVER: How much?
STANDARD: They want twenty thousand. I told them I couldn't pay so they want me to do a job for them.
DRIVER: Is that why you need a car? Standard stares back at him.
STANDARD: What did you say you were inside for?
DRIVER: I didn't. A beat, then he finally opens up.
STANDARD: It's a pawn shop in the valley. I tried to back out tonight, they said they'd come after Irene and Benicio next time. Driver stares at him in surprise now, more concerned than he Why don't you take them away?
DRIVER: Why don't you take them away?
STANDARD: Where would I go? Irene finds out I fucked up again I'll lose everything. He sounds upset, angry with himself.
STANDARD: This lousy job's my only way out. Driver stares at his battered face and the blood stains on his t- shirt, then walks out of the bathroom to check on Benicio.
DRIVER: You okay? The little boy nods without turning round, still frightened by his ordeal.
DRIVER: You want something to drink? Benicio shakes his head, trying to hide his tears. Driver heads over, then stops as he notices something in Benicio's hand. The little boy is clutching it as if he's afraid to let go.
DRIVER: What have you got there?. Benicio holds out his hand to reveal a small bullet. Driver stares at it, then looks at him.
DRIVER: Who gave you that?.
BENICIO: One of those men. He told me not to lose Driver gazes at the little boy's frightened face in concern now, his eyes faraway, thinking to himself.
COOK: I've got you to do this fucking job for me, why do I need to pay someone else? Standard sits next to Driver, holding his ground even though he's clearly intimidated by the Albanian.
STANDARD: I'll pay him out of what's left of my share. I can't do something like this on my You got Blanche. He grins, looking at Driver now. Blanche doesn't even seem to hear them, hung-over from the previous night.
COOK: You got Blanche. He grins, looking at Driver now. Blanche doesn't even seem to hear them, hung-over from the previous night.
COOK: You look like you're hard to work with?
DRIVER: Not if we understand each other.
COOK: What's to understand? It's my score. Either you sign on or you don't. Driver stares at him quietly, finding it hard to conceal his I drive. That's all I do. Blanche gets up from the table before Cook can respond.
DRIVER: I drive. That's all I do. Blanche gets up from the table before Cook can respond.
COOK: Where are you going?
BLANCHE: They've forgotten my Coke.
COOK: They'll bring it. Sit down. ( His eyes still fixed on Driver ) Standard, why don't you hire a fucking taxi He didn't mean it like that, man. Standard looks worried, trying to diffuse the tension.
STANDARD: He didn't mean it like that, man. Standard looks worried, trying to diffuse the tension.
COOK: So, what does he mean? Driver looks him calmly in the eye.
DRIVER: You tell me where we start, where we're headed, where we'll be going afterwards. I don't take part, I don't carry weapons, I Standard seems surprised by Driver's professional patter. So does Cook. Even Blanche looks interested for once.
COOK: Standard, get Blanche her coca cola. Standard hesitates, but has no choice. As he leaves to fetch Blanche her drink, Cook starts to write something down on the palm of his hand.
COOK: Okay, here's the deal. This much for Blanche, this much for that asshole minus what he owes me, and this much for you. He holds up the palm of his hand to Driver, the words Fuck Off written in marker pen.
COOK: You still interested? Driver looks at him, all his instincts telling him to walk away, but he stays where he is, thinking of Irene and Benicio.
COOK: Good. Anything else?. Driver stares back at him with his clear blue eyes.
DRIVER: We do this job he's paid his debt. You leave him and his family alone. Cook looks surprised at first, then laughs at his nerve.
COOK: Whatever you say, boss.
STANDARD: .I was such a jerk the first time we met. We're at this party and I see the most beautiful girl I ever laid eyes on and I walk over and say, `Hello Miss, my name's Standard Guzman'. She takes one look at me and asks, `Where's the deluxe version?'.
STANDARD: You don't get it either do you, Benicio? Hope you didn't inherit your Papa's brains. He ruffles his son's hair then pours himself another shot of tequila. Irene notices he's drinking, turning to Driver.
IRENE: Would you like some more chicken?
DRIVER: Their eyes stay on each as she serves him. Standard sees the look between them but his only reaction is to drain his glass and tuck into his food.
STANDARD: Now this is what I call a deluxe chicken. Irene and I are gonna open a restaurant together once I raise the money. That's why she's working in that Mexican joint. Figure out how it's done. She's got more ambition than anyone I know, more smarts too. ( He raises his glass ) We're gonna drive all those fucking Mexicans out of business -
IRENE: STANDARD -
STANDARD: Excuse my language, Benicio.
IRENE: ( Changing the subject ) How's the movie going?.
DRIVER: Irene looks at Standard as he pours himself another drink.
IRENE: Don't you think that's enough?
STANDARD: Come on, we're celebrating. I've got my family around me and our new friend.
IRENE: Are you working on anything else?
STANDARD: Stop asking the poor guy all these
IRENE: ( LOSING PATIENCE )
STANDARD: All right, I will. This time next week I'm gonna take you and Benicio away with me. Irene stops and looks at him in surprise.
STANDARD: Where you wanna go, Benicio?. His quiet confidence concerns her even more.
BENICIO: Forget Disneyland. I'm gonna take you and your mother away from this bullshit city -
STANDARD: Forget Disneyland. I'm gonna take you and your mother away from this bullshit city -
IRENE: Benicio, it's time for bed -
STANDARD: Your papa's got it all figured out -
IRENE: Benicio, you heard me -
STANDARD: It's okay. I'll take him. Standard gets up from the table, lifting Benicio up in his arms and carrying him back to his bedroom. Driver watches them. Even in this kind of mood Standard's clearly devoted to his son. Irene waits until they're gone, then turns back to Driver.
IRENE: I'm sorry.
DRIVER: Don't worry. She hesitates, torn, then looks up at him again, needing to confide in someone.
IRENE: Every time he makes that speech about taking me and Benicio away from here he's in some kind of trouble. Driver sees the deep concern in her eyes and feels even more torn. Irene gets up, clearing away some plates.
DRIVER: You don't have to do this.
STANDARD: ( Forcing a smile ) What are you talking about? He tries to make light of it but doesn't sound convincing. Out of his window he sees Blanche cross the street and enter the pawn shop and looks even more nervous now.
STANDARD: Irene and Benicio think the world of you, you know that, right?. Driver glances at him, sensing his anxiety.
STANDARD: Say something happens to me, you think you could find a way to take care of them?. Standard's still staring ahead, but Driver can sense his fear.
DRIVER: It's not too late. Standard considers a moment, then shakes his head.
STANDARD: I gotta do this for them. He forces a smile, slips on his sunglasses, then finally opens the door.
DRIVER: You got five minutes.
STANDARD: ( GRINNING )
BLANCHE: .Christ, there wasn't supposed to be this much money!. There are literally stacks of hundred dollar bills crammed inside the gym bag. Driver catches her reaction in the mirror, but his attention is focussed on the Chrysler. Up ahead, at an intersection, the lights turn red. Driver thinks about running them, but decides against it, braking sharply. The Chrysler draws up beside him, its windows glinting in the sunlight.
BLANCHE: Move for Chrissakes!. Driver ignores her, still watching the Chrysler out of the corner of his eye. The lights change to green but Driver doesn't move. Nor does the Chrysler. Behind them, other cars start honking their horns. Suddenly Driver roars off, swerving left at The Chrysler reacts, screeching off in pursuit. Driver floors the gas. On speed and power his vehicle may be no match for the Chrysler, but in traffic the odds are even. He weaves his way past the slower cars, putting obstacles between himself and the Chrysler. The pursuing car matches him move for move, staying on his tail. In the back seat, Blanche looks terrified, buckling herself in.
49A: 82 CONTINUED: 82
DRIVER: How much did Cook tell you you could expect to net?
BLANCHE: Forty Grand. She glances at the bag, staring at how much more money there is. Driver switches on the cheap TV set with the remote, flicking through the news channels. There's no mention of the robbery yet. He zips up the bag and heads out.
DRIVER: Stay here. Don't answer the door. Blanche nods, too shaken to protest.
DRIVER: BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE Is your mom there?.
DRIVER: Is your mom there?.
INTERCUT: Driver pauses, still on the phone to Benicio.
DRIVER: Tell her I'll call later.
TV REPORT: .The armed robber was pronounced dead at the scene. He was identified as Standard Guzman of Echo Park, Los Angeles. Driver listens to the report in silence. Blanche seems upset again, confronted with the reality of what's happened.
TV REPORT: .Other details are unclear but the owner of the pawn shop told reporters that the robber had no accomplices and that the items he'd taken had been recovered. In other news. Driver switches off the TV, staring at the blank screen in surprise. He turns to Blanche.
DRIVER: The guy saw you grab the money and jump in the car why didn't he say anything?
BLANCHE: I've no idea.
DRIVER: Any idea there'd be another car waiting?
BLANCHE: I already told you everything - Driver suddenly slaps her hard.
DRIVER: You just got a little kid's father killed. You think I won't hurt you? He raises his hand to slap her again and this time she talks, tears welling in her eyes.
BLANCHE: .Cook told me another car would hold us up.but he never said anything about this much money or anyone getting killed. Driver stares at her quietly, beginning to put the pieces together in his head.
DRIVER: You were gonna rip us off and split the She nods guiltily.
DRIVER: How long have you known him?
BLANCHE: Just a couple months. We were fooling around. I've never been mixed up in anything like this -
DRIVER: You know his real name?
BLANCHE: He told me it was Chris, but I just called him Cook.
DRIVER: You're going to take me to him right now, you understand? She nods, terrified, tears running down her face.
BLANCHE: ..Can I go wash up?. Driver nods distractedly, his mind racing. Blanche heads over to the bathroom.
SHANNON: Why didn't you tell me?. All he hears is silence on the other end.
SHANNON: Well, I guess it's done now. He leans back against a car.
SHANNON: How big's the take?.
SHANNON: He looks dazed by the thought of so much money.
SHANNON: You better bring it over.
SHANNON: I'll take care of it.
DOC: .Looks like you got more metal inside you than a ten ton truck. ( His hand shakes ) You'd be better off with a mechanic not a Driver looks up at him warily from Shannon's pull out bed.
DOC: Relax. Just having my fun with you. Doc picks up his bottle of scotch from among his bowls of Peroxide and Betadine, takes a drink, then offers it to Driver.
DOC: Take a hit off that. Chances are you'll need it. Driver shakes his head, closing his eyes. Shannon watches him quietly, concerned for him but also curious about the money.
SHANNON: What did you do with the cash?
DRIVER: It's safe. Shannon hesitates, but can't help himself.
SHANNON: You want me to look after it for you? Driver doesn't answer, gritting his teeth as Doc pulls out the largest shard of glass.
SHANNON: Just think what we could do with all that
DRIVER: Two guys just tried to kill me for it. I want to find out who it belongs to first. Shannon nods, coming back down to earth.
SHANNON: This guy Cook got a real name?.
DRIVER: Maybe Chris. Probably not.
SHANNON: I'll ask Bernie if he's heard of him.
SHANNON: I wish you'd talked to me first. Driver doesn't reply, his eyes fixed on the ceiling.
SHANNON: Lotta guys fall for other mens' wives, but you're the only one I know robs a joint to make it up to the husband.
BERNIE ROSE: You want some coffee?
SHANNON: No, thanks. Shannon looks tense but tries to hide it. From next door they can hear the sound of raised voices. Bernie Rose grabs the TV remote and turns up the volume to drown out his neighbors.
BERNIE ROSE: They've been going at it ever since they moved in. She's such a nice lady but it's a lousy Shidach. It's a wonder they haven't killed each other.
BERNIE ROSE: It's a strip joint on La Cienega. Your friend Cook runs it. Why're you curious about him all of a sudden? Even though they're close, Shannon's wary of giving away too much information.
SHANNON: A friend of mine owes him some money. I was wondering if you knew him?
BERNIE ROSE: Yeah, I know him. He's a crazy Albanian. If I were your friend I'd pay up.
BERNIE ROSE: You wake me up this early this friend must be a close friend?
SHANNON: ( HESITATING ) BERNIE ROSE
BERNIE ROSE: How's our car by the way?
SHANNON: We're all set for next month.
BERNIE ROSE: And our driver?
SHANNON: He's doing great.
BERNIE ROSE: That's what you should worry about. Shannon smiles back but Bernie senses how distracted he is.
BERNIE ROSE: You want my advice? Let your friend work it out for himself. Don't take pills for other people's headaches.
DRIVER: Cook moved office again?
STRIPPER: That one over there. Driver smiles gratefully, then heads towards an office at the end of the corridor. He knocks on the door. A voice calls back.
DRIVER: Should've figured you for a shill. Who were you fronting for?
COOK: Fuck you - Driver smashes the hammer into Cook's right hand now, breaking it too. Cook screams. Some of the strippers have gathered at the door but Driver couldn't care less.
DRIVER: Whose money am I holding?
COOK: Don't worry. They'll come get it. You don't know who you're fucking with - Driver smashes the hammer into the metal plates supporting Cook's left hand. He screams like a stuck pig.
DRIVER: Who's money am I holding?
COOK: ( Barely able to get the words out ) Fuck you. The strippers look stunned and riveted at the same time. Driver bends over Cook and rifles through his pockets. Finally he finds what he's looking for. Cook's cell phone. He scrolls down the call log and finds the same number appearing again and again.
TAN SUIT: Hello?.I'm afraid we're closed. Could you call back after twelve.
DRIVER: I could, but your boss won't be happy when he finds out you've kept him waiting. Tan Suit looks curious now.
TAN SUIT: Can I ask what this is about?
DRIVER: I have something that belongs to him.
TAN SUIT: And that would be?
DRIVER: A million dollars. There's a pause on the other line now.
DRIVER: Seems that way.
NINO: And you're calling me why? You expect me to buy my fucking stuff back from you?.
DRIVER: I'm not selling. I give you a time and place, you come collect your stuff.
NINO: And what do you get out of it?.
DRIVER: Just that. Out of it. You put a muzzle on Cook, forget your zombies at the Motel, forget we ever had this conversation. Nino's thinking to himself, looking more concerned than he Your partners happy with that?.
NINO: Your partners happy with that?.
DRIVER: I don't have partners.
NINO: You discuss this with anyone else?
DRIVER: Just you. Nino begins to relax now, still calculating.
NINO: You're not very good at this, are you?.
DRIVER: This isn't what I do. I'll call again with Driver switches the cell phone off.
IRENE: .I'll be back before you go to bed. How's that sound?. The little boy nods, watching his Japanese cartoon. Irene's friend, Cindy, is also there, gazing at them both in sympathy. Irene looks up at her.
IRENE: Are you going to be okay?
CINDY: We'll be fine. Irene gets up to leave when the buzzer rings. She walks over and opens the door then stops in surprise. Driver stands there.
DRIVER: You got a minute?. She looks at him in a daze.
IRENE: Where have you been?. He stares back at her in silence.
IRENE: I tried to reach you. Standard's been -
DRIVER: I know. His eyes stay on her, as if he's trying to tell her something more. She looks confused, staring back at him curiously when a small voice interrupts.
DRIVER: ( CONTINUED ) 104 CONTINUED: 104
DRIVER: I'm sorry about your father. Benicio nods. Driver keeps staring at the boy but can't find any more words of comfort. Irene watches him, still stunned. He looks back at her.
IRENE: I can't talk now. I have to go.
DRIVER: Can I give you a ride? She stares at him in dismay, close to tears.
IRENE: The car's working fine.
DRIVER: Then let me walk you down. She wants to say no but can't.
IRENE: ( Almost a whisper ) Driver misunderstands, thinking she's talking about Standard.
DRIVER: He was into one of the prison gangs for a lot of money. He was trying to protect you.
IRENE: Great job. She walks faster now, striding towards the elevator. Driver follows her.
DRIVER: I still have the money. Whatever you need - She turns around and slaps him hard.
IRENE: What are you, a bank? I work for a living. I don't need your widow's pension!
IRENE: Just tell me one thing. How did he talk you into it?
DRIVER: He didn't talk me into anything. I've been doing this my whole life. It's what I do. She stares at him in deep disappointment.
IRENE: Stupid me. She turns away when the elevator bell rings. The doors open, revealing TAN SUIT. Neither Driver or Irene recognizes him but we do. He smiles, pretending to look confused.
TAN SUIT: Sorry, I'm supposed to be going down.
IRENE: So are we. She steps into the elevator. Driver follows her in.
TAN SUIT: Which floor?
DRIVER: Parking lot, please. Tan Suit presses the button and the doors slide shut.
DRIVER: I'm leaving. I want you to come with me. Irene can't believe what she's hearing.
IRENE: What are you talking about?
DRIVER: You and Benicio. She's almost too stunned to speak, walking even faster now.
IRENE: You're crazy. I don't even know you -
DRIVER: You will. Once I straighten out this thing I'm getting out for good. We'll go some place. Anywhere you want. She shakes her head, fighting her feelings for him.
IRENE: It doesn't work like that.
DRIVER: Why not?. She stops and looks at him.
IRENE: Because people like you never get out. And I don't want my son to grow up like that. She holds his gaze with regret. Driver's about to respond when suddenly he catches a fleeting movement out of the corner of his A beat then he suddenly lunges grabbing Irene and pulling her to the ground. In the same instant Tan Suit appears out of the darkness, opening fire with his automatic. Bullets spark as they hit the concrete floor and the other parked vehicles. Driver drags Irene behind a car now, covering her with his body as Tan Suit fires another burst. More sparks light up the darkness, the bullets penetrating the car with ease, narrowly missing Driver and Irene. Driver moves again, dragging the terrified Irene behind him. Tan Suit loses sight of them in the darkness, striding past rows of parked cars.
SHANNON: What happened?
DRIVER: Nino's guys came after me. How did they know about Irene? Shannon takes a moment to reply, looking dazed.
SHANNON: I called Bernie.I asked if he could help. Him and Nino are like brothers. I told him you weren't interested in the money, that you only did it for the girl. ( From the heart ) I wanted to make sure once you returned the money that was the end of it. Driver doesn't seem to hear him.
SHANNON: Let me talk to Bernie again. They probably didn't listen to him -
DRIVER: It's too late. Shannon says nothing now, knowing he's right.
DRIVER: They're gonna come after you to find me. You have to leave. Shannon takes this in slowly.
SHANNON: What are you gonna do?. Driver doesn't answer, but from his silence Shannon can guess.
SHANNON: How the fuck did this happen? We're supposed be in Charlotte or Daytona drinking champagne out of trophies and getting laid by pit lizards. He stares at Driver with quiet regret.
SHANNON: 109 OMITTED 109
BERNIE ROSE: .I already gave you my advice. You should have taken your money and left this guy Nino and Cook sit opposite him, both of Cook's hands broken now.
NINO: It's not that simple, Bernie.
BERNIE ROSE: Not now that it's bounced up in your face.
COOK: Mr. Paolozzi, I owe you this guy. Just give me the okay and I'll -
BERNIE ROSE: You like taking orders, go shut the blinds. He looks at Cook's broken hands.
BERNIE ROSE: Sun's in my eyes. Nino doesn't look at Cook, a clear indication he should do as he's told. Cook stands up, humiliated, and walks over to the windows. Bernie Rose waits for Nino to explain.
NINO: .The money belonged to a half assed wiseguy from Philly. I had a tip-off he was keeping a million in a pawn shop and was gonna invest it here in LA, try to run a rival operation. I wanted to teach him a The lights in the restaurant gradually fade as Cook shuts the You stole from the East Coast mob?
BERNIE ROSE: ( INCREDULOUSLY )
NINO: I stole from a jumped up punk who was gonna step on our business -
BERNIE ROSE: And where did this punk find a million dollars? You ever consider he may have consulted some higher-ups? You even bother to check? -
NINO: I don't give a fuck who gave him their blessing. This is my city -
BERNIE ROSE: Your city? This is a big city, pal, and last time I checked we were partners! -
NINO: We are partners -
BERNIE ROSE: Then why the fuck didn't you come to me before you set up your dummy robbery or hired this fucking amateur?!. Cook sits back down at the table, having closed the blinds. Nino looks almost embarrassed for once.
NINO: This was off to the side, Bernie. I didn't wanna involve you.
BERNIE ROSE: Well, now you fucked up I am involved. Anyone finds out you stole from the family they'll kill both of us -
NINO: What family? These fucks still call me a kike to my face. I'm fifty nine years old, they pinch my cheek, treat me like a fuckin' kid. They're the reason we left New York in the first place. Decrepit old men waving us over to their dinner and domino tables to complain.
BERNIE ROSE: Those old men gave us the funds to move out And I made them a lotta money. I made you a lotta money too. He stares at Bernie, genuinely indignant now.
NINO: And I made them a lotta money. I made you a lotta money too. He stares at Bernie, genuinely indignant now.
NINO: I pay them half of everything I fucking earn and then they set up some fucking kid from Philadelphia just because he's a fucking wop! There's a hint of sympathy in Bernie's eyes.
BERNIE ROSE: The money always flows up, Izzy. You know He calls Nino by his childhood name now, emphasizing the fact that they're both outsiders in this organization. For the first time Nino's tough guy act slips and he looks anxious.
NINO: That's why this driver has to go. Him, and maybe your friend Shannon, are the only two people who can tie me to the robbery.
BERNIE ROSE: What about this prick? He doesn't even bother to look at Cook.
COOK: Mr. Paolozzi -
NINO: Shut up. The two friends stare at each other as if Cook didn't exist.
BERNIE ROSE: Are you asking my permission?
NINO: I'm asking for your help. I shoulda' come to you first, Bernie. I know that. We're a He stares at Bernie apologetically, appealing to their I'll pay you back the three hundred you spent on the race car.
NINO: I'll pay you back the three hundred you spent on the race car.
BERNIE ROSE: It's not about the money. He stares out quietly, torn.
BERNIE ROSE: All right. Nino nods in gratitude.
BERNIE ROSE: ( TO COOK )
BERNIE ROSE: Your turn to clean up after me. 110a EXT. TRAILER/ FILM SET/ SAN PEDRO/ LOS ANGELES - MORNING. 110a The CREW are setting up for their first shot of the day. In the background we see a DIRECTOR blocking out an action scene. Driver walks past without even a glance, heading towards the make-up trailer. He opens the door and walks in, looking around the trailer until he finds what he's looking for the SFX mask he saw previously on the film set.
BERNIE ROSE: All these priceless cars, you should get better locks.
SHANNON: Door's always open to you. Bernie Rose heads towards him with his hands in his coat Going somewhere?
BERNIE ROSE: Going somewhere?
SHANNON: Thinking about it.
BERNIE ROSE: I'm looking for your driver.
SHANNON: You break in like this I figure it's bad It's bad luck. Two thousand heists in this city a year, he had to pick the wrong one.
BERNIE ROSE: It's bad luck. Two thousand heists in this city a year, he had to pick the wrong one.
SHANNON: He tried to put it right.
BERNIE ROSE: Picked the wrong guy for that too. My partner's a belligerent asshole with his back against the wall. He stops, facing Shannon.
BERNIE ROSE: Right now so am I. I don't take care of this I'm in big trouble. He stares at his old friend.
BERNIE ROSE: Any idea where he is?
SHANNON: Probably across the border by now. Mexico. Belize. That's where I'd go. Bernie Rose smiles, not believing a word.
BERNIE ROSE: He just walked out on you after everything you've done for him, took all the money?
SHANNON: That's gratitude, I guess. Bernie Rose can't help grinning, fond of Shannon despite I ever tell you how long Izzy and I been friends? Since we were six. Only Jews in a neighborhood of wops. Long as I can remember he was getting me into trouble and I was getting him out of scrapes. He looks almost apologetic.
BERNIE ROSE: I ever tell you how long Izzy and I been friends? Since we were six. Only Jews in a neighborhood of wops. Long as I can remember he was getting me into trouble and I was getting him out of scrapes. He looks almost apologetic.
BERNIE ROSE: Anyone else I'd take your side.
SHANNON: Anyone else I'd do the same. Bernie Rose watches him with a mixture of affection and regret.
BERNIE ROSE: What's this fucking kid to you anyway? Shannon shrugs, no idea himself.
BERNIE ROSE: I leave here without finding out where he is, there'll be others coming after me. I guarantee they'll be too stupid to figure out you won't talk and drag this out Then I'm glad you got here first. Bernie Rose holds his gaze, then looks away, admiring the shiny stock car.
SHANNON: Then I'm glad you got here first. Bernie Rose holds his gaze, then looks away, admiring the shiny stock car.
BERNIE ROSE: You know, it's too bad, I was getting excited about our race team, having my name all over the car. I think we could have made something of this business.
SHANNON: Nah, I'd have fucked it up too. Shannon smiles, reconciled with himself. Bernie Rose grins, and extends his hand. They shake hands firmly, like old friends, when suddenly Shannon recoils, as if he's been stung. We see now that his shirt sleeve is covered in blood, his vein cut all the way from his elbow to his wrist. He looks dazed, paralysed with shock. Bernie Rose holds a razor knife in his hand, the blade wet with Shannon's blood. He takes Shannon gently by the arm and sits him down against the boot of the stock car.
BERNIE ROSE: You won't feel a thing. Close your eyes and you'll fall asleep. Shannon stares out numbly, the life ebbing out of him. Bernie Rose watches him quietly, wiping his bloody razor with a 111a INT. BERNIE ROSE'S APARTMENT - DAY. 111a Bernie Rose replaces the razor knife in a small lacquered box full of other knives. From next door he can hear his neighbors arguing again. He stands there a moment, deflated, then suddenly storms towards his front door. 111b EXT. CORRIDOR/ BERNIE ROSE'S NEIGHBORS' APARTMENT - DAY. 111b A loud knocking. Bernie Rose's neighbor opens his door.
HUSBAND: BERNIE ROSE
BERNIE ROSE: Bernie Rose, next apartment over -
HUSBAND: Yeah, I know. I'm kind of busy here.
BERNIE ROSE: I heard. There's something threatening in the old mobster's eyes now. The husband moves to close the door but Bernie jams it open with his elbow, shoves him aside, then looks over at the wife.
BERNIE ROSE: You all right, Shonda? The woman nods without meeting his eyes.
HUSBAND: Get the hell out of my - Bernie doesn't give him time to finish, clamping a powerful hand on his throat.
BERNIE ROSE: What's your fucking name?
HUSBAND: LENNY - BERNIE ROSE
BERNIE ROSE: I'm a patient man, Lenny, not much for getting in other people's way. What I figure is, we've all got our own lives, right? And the right to be left alone?
BERNIE ROSE: You're lucky to have her, lucky she's put up with you this long. Lucky I've put up with you. She has good reason: she loves you. I don't have any reason at all. So stop raising your voice or fucking move. He lets go of the terrified man and storms out again.
NINO: Alright honey, I'll pick you up in an hour.
NINO'S GUY: We're closed. Driver stares past them at Nino in the kitchen, surrounded by more of his men. We feel his mind calculating then he walks out 118 EXT. NINO'S PIZZERIA - NIGHT. 118 Nino emerges with his bodyguards now, heading towards one of the white Lincolns.
NINO: ( To one of his men ) I'm going to pick up my wife. I'll meet you Across the road Driver climbs into his car, still wearing the mask. He starts his car, setting off after Nino's Lincoln.
NINO: .Sure, Carlo, I'll send him your 127 INT. DRIVER'S CAR/ SAN VINCENTE BOULEVARD - NIGHT. 127 Driver merges in with the traffic, weaving between the cars in front of him until he has Nino's Lincoln back in his sights.
NINO: .Nice talking to you too. ( As he hangs up ) 132 EXT. ENTRADA DRIVE/ PACIFIC PALISADES - NIGHT. 132 Both cars head into Entrada Drive.
NINO: .Bernie, it's me.
NINO: .Look, about that thing today.I'm sorry. I know how much you liked the guy. In his rear view mirror the chauffeur sees the headlights of the car behind getting closer.
BERNIE ROSE: NINO O/S You're the only fucking person in the world I trust. I love you, man. Bernie shakes his head, the same old apologies.
NINO: When this is over I'll make it up to you, I The lights of the car behind have vanished.
BERNIE ROSE: How many times I heard that before.
NINO: I lost count - Suddenly blazing headlights explode to life behind him.
NINO: It was Bernie.Bernie Rose killed your friend not me. Driver shoves his face back under the water, keeping it there until Nino's body finally stops thrashing.
BERNIE ROSE: DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE He's dead. Bernie Rose stares out in silence. Whatever he thinks of Nino, a part of him has died. We feel the regret in his eyes but there's no trace of emotion in his voice.
BERNIE ROSE: Looks like me, you and your girlfriend are the only pieces left on the board.
INTERCUT: BERNIE ROSE
BERNIE ROSE: I'd say this has gone far enough. See any reason why it should go on?.
DRIVER: Doesn't have to.
BERNIE ROSE: Then we should talk. You know a place called the Great Wall out on Sherman DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE I can find it. Bernie pauses, staring out.
BERNIE ROSE: Care for a glass?. Driver doesn't smile, gazing back at him across the table. Bernie Rose doesn't seem to care.
BERNIE ROSE: I can recommend the duck. Hell, I can recommend everything Walnut prawns, shredded beef, Velvet chicken but the duck's to die for. He delivers the last line with a pointed smile, then turns away, calling over a WAITRESS.
BERNIE ROSE: The duck, please. For two.
WAITRESS: Anything else?
BERNIE ROSE: No, thanks. He waits for the waitress to leave, then turns back to Driver.
BERNIE ROSE: You've been on a roll. Cut yourself quite a swath out there.
DRIVER: I never asked for any of it.
BERNIE ROSE: We usually don't. But it comes down on our heads regardless. Look at Shannon. Driver holds his gaze, the tension palpable, laughter and conversation drifting over from the other tables.
BERNIE ROSE: Anyway it's water under the bridge now. Question is where does that leave us?
DRIVER: That's up to you.
BERNIE ROSE: You bring the cash? Driver nods. Bernie Rose studies him quietly.
BERNIE ROSE: Tell me something, how does someone with no interest in money get mixed up in a heist? ( Off his silence ) Shannon told me it was because of the girl? Driver hesitates, betraying a hint of concern. Bernie sees it and smiles.
BERNIE ROSE: Don't worry. Nobody else knows about her. Just me.
DRIVER: She's not interested.
BERNIE ROSE: She's got her head screwed on right. I got two ex-wives, three kids, four grandchildren. Not one of them speaks to me He smiles again, looking into Driver's eyes with just a hint of This is what I'll do for you. You give me the money, nobody knows she exists. But it's a different matter with you.
BERNIE ROSE: This is what I'll do for you. You give me the money, nobody knows she exists. But it's a different matter with you.
DRIVER: Sounds like we have a problem.
BERNIE ROSE: And just when we were getting to know each Their eyes are fixed on each other, deadly enemies but kindred spirits of a kind.
BERNIE ROSE: .We shake hands, say goodbye, it's the start of your new life. Sooner or later they'll come after you. No end to it. Someone gets tired, somebody else takes their place. It goes on and on. Whatever dreams you have, whatever plans, you might as well forget `em, because this is what it's gonna be like till the day you die.
DRIVER: What do you suggest I do?
BERNIE ROSE: First time I heard about you, Shannon told me you drove. Fast. That's a start. He keeps staring at Driver, then smiles.
BERNIE ROSE: Either that or you choke on the duck.
BERNIE ROSE: How much does something like this cost?
DRIVER: Nine, ten thousand. If you can find one that still runs.
BERNIE ROSE: Maybe I'll take yours. Part of our deal. He grins, then holds out his hand for the gym bag.
BERNIE ROSE: Guess we won't be seeing each other again.. Driver reaches out to give him the bag, when suddenly Bernie's hand snakes out of his pocket, twisting a switch-blade into Driver's gut. He pulls it out, ready to stab again, but this time Driver catches his wrist, slowly forcing the knife up to his throat. Their eyes are fixed on each other for a moment, with something like regret, then the blade pierces Bernie Rose's neck, sinking deeper and deeper. Driver holds the old man in his arms as he dies. They stay like that, locked in a fatal embrace, then Driver lowers Bernie Rose gently to the ground, out of sight. Blood seeping through his shirt, Driver picks up the gym bag and puts it back in the trunk, slamming the door shut.
IRENE: ( Picking up her phone ) The blazing sun beats down. Driver walks through a long corridor of glinting cars.
DRIVER: It's me.
DRIVER: You got a pen? I need you to write something down. Irene looks confused as she hears the quiet urgency in his voice, then reaches inside her handbag. Sunlight glitters on the roofs of the parked cars, dazzling Driver's eyes.
DRIVER: .JJT 108. IRENE'S VOICE ON THE PHONE .JJT 108. It's the license number for my car. I've left it in a parking lot on the corner of Culver and Lincoln. Section M 10. Irene writes down the details, looking even more confused.
DRIVER: It's the license number for my car. I've left it in a parking lot on the corner of Culver and Lincoln. Section M 10. Irene writes down the details, looking even more confused.
IRENE: What do you want me to do with it?. Driver walks with difficulty, finding it hard to breathe.
DRIVER: It's yours. It's safe to keep it. All around him the Chevys, Dodges, and Fords glitter in the I told you, I don't need your money. Blood seeps through Driver's shirt, dripping on the tarmac. Irene hears his labored breathing now, looking concerned.
IRENE: I told you, I don't need your money. Blood seeps through Driver's shirt, dripping on the tarmac. Irene hears his labored breathing now, looking concerned.
IRENE: Are you okay?. Driver's skin looks deathly pale, his eyes a haunting shade of blue. He keeps walking through the maze of cars, casting his eyes from one vehicle to the next, looking for the perfect ride.
DRIVER: Just out of breath. Finally he spots a beautiful white Camaro up ahead.
DRIVER: How're you doing?. For the first time we see the Echo Park fountain sparkling in the background.
IRENE: Fine. I'm in the park with Benicio. Irene can no longer hold back her tears, heartbroken. Driver stops in front of the white Camaro, unsteady on his feet.
DRIVER: I gotta go Irene. He pauses.
DRIVER: Meeting you was the best thing that ever happened to me. Irene smiles sadly.
IRENE: It was nice to meet you too.
