MRS. TEASDALE: It is so good of you to come.
NOTABLE: An honor, Mrs. Teasdale. You must indeed have great faith in your new dictator to give him such a magnificent reception.
MRS. TEASDALE: I feel that Rufus T. Firefly is the only logical successor to my dear departed husband. He has the statesmanship of Gladstone, the humility of Lincoln, and the wisdom of Pericles.
MRS. TEASDALE: As the widow of your last president, I have the right to choose and, Gentlemen, I refuse to discuss the matter any further.
SERVANT: His Excellency, Ambassador Verdi Trentino of Amnesia!
TRENTINO: Mrs. Teasdale. my niece, Vera.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( To niece ) Your uncle has been such a friend to us in every crisis. Without his country's financial aid
TRENTINO: ( Lightly ) What is money? ( Tenderly ) Mrs. Teasdale, for you I would do ( Flustered ) ( Attempting to change the subject ) I am so anxious for you to meet our new dictator.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Flustered ) ( Attempting to change the subject ) I am so anxious for you to meet our new dictator.
TRENTINO: ( Persistent in his flattery ) Mrs. Teasdale no matter who rules Freedonia, to me you will always be the first lady of the land.
VERA: Mrs. Teasdale, my uncle's hopeless you've been the only topic of conversation ever since we left
SERVANT: The Honorable Mohamed Pandooh of Oh, I must greet His Honor.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Hastily ) Oh, I must greet His Honor.
VERA: So that's the one you want to marry.
TRENTINO: With Mrs. Teasdale as my wife and Freedonia under my control
VERA: Maybe it's not going to be so easy. From what I've heard, Mrs. Teasdale is rather sweet on this Rufus T. That's where you come in. I'll leave him in your hands, and don't forget you're supposed to be my niece.
TRENTINO: That's where you come in. I'll leave him in your hands, and don't forget you're supposed to be my niece.
MRS. TEASDALE: I want you to meet the son of His Excellency Bob Firefly.
TRENTINO: Isn't it about time for the ceremony to begin, Mrs. Teasdale? I do hope His Excellency won't be My father makes it a point to always be on time. As long as I've known him, he's never been late for an But it's two minutes of ten now.
BOB: ( Defensively ) My father makes it a point to always be on time. As long as I've known him, he's never been late for an But it's two minutes of ten now.
TRENTINO: But it's two minutes of ten now.
BOB: ( As music begins ) His Excellency is due To take his station. Beginning his new Administration. He'll make his appearance when The clock on the wall strikes ten.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( singing ) When the clock on the wall strikes ten All you loyal ladies and you patriotic men Let's sing the national anthem when. The clock on the wall strikes ten.
ALL: ( singing ) Hail, hail, Freedonia. Mightiest of mighty nations! Hail, hail, Freedonia Land of the brave and free.
ALL: ( singing ) Hail, hail, Freedonia. Land of the brave and free.
ALL: Hail, hail, Freedonia. Land of the brave and free.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Nervously ) I hope nothing has happened.
BOB: Mrs. Teasdale, I assure you there is nothing to worry about. Father is probably taking extra care in getting into his robes of state. I'll call
ALL: Hail, hail, Freedonia. Land of the brave and free.
GROUCHO: ( Interrupting ) Never mind that stuff.
GROUCHO: Take a card.
MRS. TEASDALE: What'll I do with this card?
GROUCHO: You can keep it I've got a whole pack. Now what were you saying?
GROUCHO: How late do you stay open?
MRS. TEASDALE: In choosing you, I feel that I serve my country well. I heartily endorse everything you stand for.
GROUCHO: Well, I won't stand for much. And I won't stand for you if you don't show some improvement soon. Look at your report card last month "D" in spelling. six in behavior. Now who were the six? A fine state of affairs no wonder you can't matriculate, now what were you saying?
MRS. TEASDALE: The future of Freedonia rests upon you. Promise me you will follow in my husband's footsteps.
GROUCHO: ( To CAMERA ) I haven't been on the job five minutes and already she's making advances to ( To Mrs. Teasdale ) Not that I care but where is your ( Slightly embarrassed ) Why - er my husband passed away. ( reverently ) I was with him to the very end.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Slightly embarrassed ) Why - er my husband passed away. ( reverently ) I was with him to the very end.
GROUCHO: No wonder he passed away. I'd like to be with you to the very end. Can't you see what I'm trying to tell you I love you.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Very warmly ) Your Excellency!
GROUCHO: You're not so bad yourself, Mrs. Teasdale, when I look at you I can see that we're facing a crisis. We've got to balance the budget we've got to cut down everything including, you.
TRENTINO: ( To Mrs. Teasdale, smiling appreciatively ) Thanks. but I can't stay very long.
GROUCHO: That's even a greater honor.
TRENTINO: I bring you the greetings of my President and the good will of my I'll keep the greetings but you can send back the good will. what we need right now is twenty million Twenty million dollars is a considerable sum. I'll have to discuss that with my Minister of Well, in the meantime, could you let me have $50 personally?
GROUCHO: I'll keep the greetings but you can send back the good will. what we need right now is twenty million Twenty million dollars is a considerable sum. I'll have to discuss that with my Minister of Well, in the meantime, could you let me have $50 personally?
TRENTINO: Twenty million dollars is a considerable sum. I'll have to discuss that with my Minister of Well, in the meantime, could you let me have $50 personally?
GROUCHO: Well, in the meantime, could you let me have $50 personally?
TRENTINO: ( Surprised )
GROUCHO: I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll give you Mrs. Teasdale as security. or my jackknife. If you want my advice, you'll take the jackknife. I've a better proposition. Make it $25 and I'll give you a first mortgage on my son and I hope you Your Excellency, haven't we met Why yes. I met you at the dog races say, you could have won that race if you tried a little harder.
TRENTINO: ( With a puzzled look at Groucho ) Your Excellency, haven't we met ( Looking at Trentino ) Why yes. I met you at the dog races say, you could have won that race if you tried a little harder.
GROUCHO: ( Looking at Trentino ) Why yes. I met you at the dog races say, you could have won that race if you tried a little harder.
TRENTINO: Excellency, may I present my niece.
GROUCHO: Go ahead.
TRENTINO: You don't understand. This is my niece Vera.
GROUCHO: ( Throwing her a glance ) And Vera niece, too.
VERA: Your Excellency, please don't think me silly, but I'd love to have a picture of you. I want to hang it in my bedroom.
GROUCHO: You couldn't hang me in your bedroom I'll make a note of it. Where's my
BOB: Here I am, Father.
GROUCHO: ( To Bob ) Take a letter.
BOB: ( Taking out a stenographer's pad and pencil ) Who to?
GROUCHO: The President of the United States.
GROUCHO: My dear President. read it back.
BOB: ( Reading from pad ) "My dear President".
GROUCHO: That doesn't sound right. take out "President". now read it.
BOB: ( Reading ) "My dear".
GROUCHO: That's not right yet. put back "President" and take out "dear". How does it read now?
BOB: ( Reading ) "My President".
GROUCHO: There's still something wrong with it. take out "President" .now what've you got?
BOB: ( Reading ) Now we're on the right track. Put back "dear". How does it read?
GROUCHO: Now we're on the right track. Put back "dear". How does it read?
BOB: ( Reading ) "My dear".
GROUCHO: You can't say that to the President. Put back "President". Now let's hear how sounds.
BOB: ( Reading ) "My dear President".
GROUCHO: That's what I wanted in the first place. Tear it up and send it Is that all?
BOB: Is that all?
GROUCHO: Take another letter. to my tailor.
GROUCHO: Dear Sir. enclosed find check for $100. Yours very truly. Send that immediately.
BOB: I'll have to enclose the check first.
GROUCHO: You do and I'll fire you.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( To Groucho ) Your Excellency, the eyes of the world are upon you. Notables from every land are gathered here in your ( Indicating the guests with a wave of her hand ) This is a gala day for us.
GROUCHO: Well, a gal a day is enough for me. I couldn't handle any more.
MRS. TEASDALE: If it's not asking too much For our information just for Tell us how you intend to run the These are the laws of my administration: No one's allowed to smoke or tell a dirty joke And whistling is forbidden.
GROUCHO: ( Singing ) These are the laws of my administration: No one's allowed to smoke or tell a dirty joke And whistling is forbidden.
ENSEMBLE: ( Singing ) We're not allowed to tell a dirty joke HAIL, HAIL, FREEDONIA
GROUCHO: ( Singing ) If chewing gum is chewed, The chewer is pursued And in the hoosegow ( Singing ) If we should choose to chew, we'll be pursued -
ENSEMBLE: ( Singing ) If we should choose to chew, we'll be pursued -
GROUCHO: If any form of pleasure is exhibited Report to me and it will be prohibited. I'll put my foot down; So shall it be - This is the land of the free. The last man nearly ruined this place He didn't know what to do with it. If you think this country's bad off now Just wait 'till I get through with it. The treasury is low on dough; The last man went and flew with it. If you think we're short of money now Just wait 'till I get through with The country's taxes must be fixed - And I know what to do with it, If you think you're paying too much now, Just wait 'till I get through with it.
DIGNITARY: ( Singing ) In our midst you stand The ruler of this land A man who'll govern with an iron hand.
GROUCHO: ( Singing ) If anyone gets fresh with me, I'll show him who's the boss; I'll stand upon my dignity, And toss him for a loss. And this will be the penalty For those who doublecross - We'll stand 'em up against the wall, and Pop goes the Weasel
ENSEMBLE: ( Singing ) If you should make him cross, He'll toss you for a loss. If anyone gets fresh with him, He'll show him who's the boss.
GROUCHO: ( Singing ) I will not stand for anything that's crooked or unfair; I'm strictly on the up and up, So everyone beware. If anyone's caught taking graft And I don't get my share, we'll stand 'em up against the wall - and pop goes the weasel!
ENSEMBLE: ( Singing ) So everyone beware Who's crooked or unfair; No one must take a bit of graft Unless he gets his share. ( Groucho dances as above is sung )
GROUCHO: ( Singing ) If any man should come between A husband and his bride, We find out which one she prefers By letting her decide. If she prefers the other man, The husband steps outside; We stand him up against the wall And Pop goes the Weasel!
ENSEMBLE: ( Singing ) The husband steps outside; Relinquishes his bride; We stand him up against the wall And take him for a ride. ( Groucho dances as above is sung )
GROUCHO: The population must increase With great rapidity. We give a couple seven years To raise a family. If, by that time, there is no branch Upon the family tree, we stand 'em up against the wall - and Pop goes the Weasel.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( As she beams on him ) You've made a wonderful impression. Your views are liberal. It is easy to see you have an open mind.
GROUCHO: That's what I get for dressing in a Your Excellency, you mustn't forget your appointment at the House of Representatives. Have you got your speech ready?
MRS. TEASDALE: Your Excellency, you mustn't forget your appointment at the House of Representatives. Have you got your speech ready?
GROUCHO: I wrote a speech last night that'll knock them off their seats. Four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation
MRS. TEASDALE: Why, that's the speech that Lincoln made at Gettysburg.
GROUCHO: ( With a look of great surprise ) He did?. I told my son not to leave it laying around. Where is son?
BOB: Here I am, Father.
GROUCHO: Send for my car.
BOB: ( Calling to servant off scene ) His Excellency's car!
GUARDS: ( In unison ) His Excellency's car!
GROUCHO: To the House of Representatives. ride like fury. Don't stop for any signals and don't wait for a corner to make a turn. see if you can break a record.
GROUCHO: A fine thing leaving the head of the nation at the foot of the
GROUCHO: That concludes the nine o'clock sprints. Next Saturday night the winner of the six day bicycle race will receive ten thousand dollars in gold. the following morning we go off the gold standard.
SEQUENCE "B": FADE IN on interior of Freedonian House of Representatives. This interior although not a replica of our own House of Representatives, should be close enough technically to sell the idea. Each seat is occupied by an officious-looking dignitary. On the platform are a few desks. perhaps a pulpit which Groucho uses when he arrives. The one to the right is the court stenographer's desk, occupied by Bob Firefly. He takes notes as the meeting progresses. Throughout the House runs a ripple of excitement, which is stopped by the rapping of the gavel by the Speaker of the Trentino takes the floor
SPEAKER: Gentlemen, gentlemen, remember for forty-six years we have enjoyed the friendship of Amnesia, so ably represented by Ambassador Trentino. We owe it to ourselves to listen to what he has to say.
TRENTINO: Gentlemen, while I admit it is unusual for a representative of one country to advise the legislative body of another, I assure you that I have the interest of Freedonia at heart
BOB: I object!. we have no right to discuss this matter in the absence of my father.
SPEAKER: ( To House ) We have been meeting every morning for eight days and not once has His Excellency been on time.
TRENTINO: ( Looking at his watch ) Gentlemen, I cannot wait much ( To Bob ) Would you mind calling your father
SPEAKER: ( To Bob ) Would you mind calling your father
MEMBERS: ( Singing ) HAIL, HAIL, FREEDONIA Land of the brave and free.
GROUCHO: ( Pointing toward the individual off scene ) The Secretary of Agriculture was a little flat. ( He takes a match and scratches it across the top of the desk to light his cigar. takes a few puffs, then raps the gavel. ) I move we open the morning session. Has anybody got a cork screw? ( Looking out and around at members )
GROUCHO: What's to stop you from digging one. And after you dig a river, how're ya gonna cross it without a bridge.? We've got to have a bridge to stop people from going places then we've gotta stop them from coming back. If you're worried about the expense we can have a bridge with only one end and if that's a success we can do away with it altogether. I'm telling you that what this country needs is
GROUCHO: If there's one thing we don't need right now it's peanuts gentlemen, what good is a bridge if you haven't got ammunition to blow it up. ammunition was never cheaper. Right now, you can get two cannons for the price of one and shoot twice as far for half the money. With every five thousand dollar purchase we throw in a Big Bertha. If you don't like her, you can throw her right out again. I tell you no country can protect itself
SPEAKER: I'm sorry your Excellency, it is that infernal peanut vendor Chicolini. How can we accomplish anything with that constant annoyance?
TRENTINO: Your Excellency - are we or are we not going to discuss this problem - my time is valuable - I'm a man of few words -
GROUCHO: I'm a man of one word. SCRAM!!!
GROUCHO: ( To Bob - aroused ) Go out and chase that peanut vendor away from the building Get rid of him if you have to use violence - if necessary call out the militia and if he isn't looking get me a bag of I've tried to chase him but it's no use - he won't go -
BOB: I've tried to chase him but it's no use - he won't go -
GROUCHO: He won't eh? - We'll see about that - send for your father immediately.
BOB: But you're my father -
GROUCHO: Never mind then, I'll get in touch with him myself -
CHICO: ( Singing loudly )
CHICO: ( To Trentino ) How'm I doing, boss?
TRENTINO: Fine - keep on yelling - Do everything you can to disturb Firefly - Now what about your cousin?
CHICO: He's working very hard - I got him a job driving Firefly's car - He's-a driving him crazy and I'm driving him nuts - P-E-A-N-U-T-S I'll get rid of that pest - watch me
GROUCHO: ( Glaring angrily at window ) I'll get rid of that pest - watch me
GROUCHO: ( To Chico - angrily ) Hey you!!
CHICO: All right -
GROUCHO: Have you got a license?
CHICO: No, but my dog he's a got millions of them
GROUCHO: ( Munching peanuts as Chico walks over and stands under window ) What kind of a dog is he?
CHICO: He used to be a bloodhound but he's Well - what is he now?
GROUCHO: Well - what is he now?
CHICO: He's half poodle and half watch dog -
GROUCHO: Half watch dog?
CHICO: Yeh, he's only got one eye.
GROUCHO: I don't know much about dogs but you ought to be on the end of a leash - a ninety-nine year leash - Look - what do you call your dog?
CHICO: I don't call him, I whistle.
GROUCHO: What do you whistle?
CHICO: Yankee Poodle.
GROUCHO: I've got just the place for a man like you but I'm too busy right now to do any digging. What do you call your dog when you want him?
CHICO: I don't want him.
GROUCHO: Well, if you don't want your dog why don't you put him in a pound?
CHICO: He only weighs ten ounces
GROUCHO: I can use you in the House of Representatives. We need a man who understands dogs and that's where this country is going to. Step
GROUCHO: ( To Bob ) In case of fire, how long will it take to empty this place?
BOB: ( After a moment's thought ) About - thirty-four seconds.
GROUCHO: We'll start a fire and get rid of these microbes.
CHICO: ( At telephone ) Hello!. Yes. Yes. He's not That was for you.
CHICO: That was for you.
GROUCHO: I'm sorry I'm not in. I wanted to have a long talk with you. Now look here, my good man, you've got to stop yelling "peanuts" in front of the House of Representatives.
CHICO: Oh no, I can't do it.
GROUCHO: You don't want to be a public nuisance, do you?
CHICO: Sure. How much does the job pay? Sure, if there's a chance for You wouldn't consider going over Niagara Falls without a barrel?
GROUCHO: You wouldn't consider going over Niagara Falls without a barrel?
CHICO: 'At's-a no good. I went to Niagara Falls once.
GROUCHO: Did you shoot the rapids?
CHICO: No, but I shot some ducks.
GROUCHO: If there was an open season for fellows like you, I'd get myself a hunting license. Anyway, I'm going to make you a sporting proposition. You give up the peanut stand and I'll make you vice-president of the Oh, no nothing doing. I had a brother who was a vice-president once and that's the last we ever heard of him.
CHICO: Oh, no nothing doing. I had a brother who was a vice-president once and that's the last we ever heard of him.
GROUCHO: Well, maybe he's still the vice- president. Now if I were to offer
CHICO: ( To telephone ) Hello. Yes. No, not yet. All right. Goodbye. ( Hangs up receiver - then says to Groucho ) That was for you again. He wants you to call him up as soon as you get back.
GROUCHO: I don't know what's keeping me. I should've been here a long time ago. Now how about my proposition?
CHICO: What other job you got?
GROUCHO: Let's see What've I got in my cabinet besides mice I've got it how would you like to be Secretary of the Interior?
CHICO: That's no good. I like to work on the outside. I must have something Then you don't wanna work hard?
GROUCHO: Then you don't wanna work hard?
CHICO: I don't wanna work at all.
GROUCHO: In that case you'll have to take a civil service examination if you pass I'll put you in the post-office stick out your tongue.
CHICO: I don't wanna stick out my tongue.
GROUCHO: Well, if you wanna work in the post- office you'll have to stick out your Look, I'm a very nervous man. I gotta have a job where I come to work at eleven go to lunch at twelve and quit at one. And twice a year I gotta have a six month I've got just the job for you Secretary of War.
CHICO: Look, I'm a very nervous man. I gotta have a job where I come to work at eleven go to lunch at twelve and quit at one. And twice a year I gotta have a six month I've got just the job for you Secretary of War.
GROUCHO: I've got just the job for you Secretary of War.
CHICO: 'At's-a fine.
GROUCHO: ( After a moment's glance at Harpo ) You know, I'd be lost without a telephone. Now - where were we? Oh, yes - I just made you Secretary of War. The first thing you do is buy ammunition you buy it from me and I get 10% commission.
CHICO: What do I get?
GROUCHO: You get half mine and I get half I don't want to buy ammunition we no gotta war.
CHICO: I don't want to buy ammunition we no gotta war.
GROUCHO: Then we've gotta start one. Do you know how to start a war?
CHICO: Sure, that's easy. You gotta insult
GROUCHO: My card.
CHICO: ( Laughing ) That's a-no good. You gotta insult somebody from another country. Look ( Puts his large gloves on the desk ) I come from one country. You come from another country. I say something you don't like. You say something I don't like - and I'm insulted.
GROUCHO: Why wasn't I insulted?
CHICO: You was insulted, but you don't know Then I demand an apology!
GROUCHO: ( Indignantly ) Then I demand an apology!
CHICO: That's a-no good. If I apologize we no got a war. Look I send you a scrap of paper. You send me a scrap of paper and we have a scrap.
GROUCHO: You've got a brain after all - and how you get along without it is amazing to me Now, who can I insult?. Who do we owe money to?. AMBASSADOR TRENTINO! How about him?
CHICO: He's-a very easy to insult I say something to his niece once, and he slapped my face.
GROUCHO: Why didn't his niece slap your face?
CHICO: She did.
GROUCHO: What did you say to her?
GROUCHO: You're lucky I don't slap your face you oughtta be ashamed of yourself. Where did you hear that story?
CHICO: You told it to me.
GROUCHO: ( Puzzled for a moment ) Oh, yes, I remember and I should have slapped Mrs. Teasdale's face when she told it to me. I'm going right out and find Trentino. You go right out and get yourself an army.
GROUCHO: Wait a minute. What kind of an army do you think we oughtta have?
CHICO: I think we oughtta have a standing army, so we can save money on chairs. To Mrs. Teasdale's residence! This is the fifth trip I've made today and I haven't been anywhere
GROUCHO: To Mrs. Teasdale's residence! This is the fifth trip I've made today and I haven't been anywhere
GROUCHO: This is the fifth trip I've made today and I haven't been anywhere
FADES OUT: END OF SEQUENCE "B"
SEQUENCE "C": FADE IN to garden party. This is an afternoon tea in the garden of the Teasdale estate. Spotted in the set-up are innumerable colorful umbrellas, under which are tea tables. The guests include the notables we saw in the mansion in the first sequence. The only two people absent are Ambassador Trentino and Mrs. Teasdale. Vera Trentino is seated at one of the tables and her presence is established there in the opening shot. Music is heard over the scene and should be continued through the scene as if being played by an orchestra on the premises. Suddenly the chatter ceases as the following announcement is heard coming over scene.
GUARD'S VOICE: ( From off scene ) His Excellency, Rufus T. Firefly!
GUESTS: ( Singing ) HAIL, HAIL, FREEDONIA Land of the brave and free.
TRENTINO'S VOICE: Can't you see, Gloria, our marriage would not only unite two great .but would further cement the relations of our countries.
TRENTINO: ( Continuing ) .but would further cement the relations of our countries.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Fluttering with excitement ) Ambassador Trentino, I am indeed ( Falteringly ) But you see - well - I
TRENTINO: ( Repressing his anger - coldly ) Oh. Then there his somebody else?
MRS. TEASDALE: Well no not exactly but
TRENTINO: ( Impatiently ) Gloria I've waited for years. I won't be put off! I love you! I want you! ( Taking her hand pleadingly ) Can't you see that I'm at your feet?
GROUCHO: ( To Trentino ) When you get through with her feet, you can start on mine. I haven't been to a chiropodist in two years. ( To CAMERA ) If that's not an insult, I don't know what is. ( Turns to Gloria ) Gloria, I love you. I
TRENTINO: ( Furious, to Gloria ) Can't we go some place where we can be alone?
GROUCHO: ( To Mrs. Teasdale ) What can this mug offer you? Wealth and family. I can't give you ( Archly lifting his eyebrow ) .but we can have a little family of our own.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Coyly ) Oh, Rufus!
GROUCHO: All I can offer you is a Rufus over your head.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Happily confused ) Oh, Your Excellency, I don't know what to say.
GROUCHO: I wouldn't know what to say either if I was in your place. Maybe you can suggest something.
TRENTINO: ( Hotly ) This has gone far enough! This interruption is humiliating, to say the least.
GROUCHO: Well, why not say the least and get it over with?
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Fearful ) Gentlemen! Gentlemen!
TRENTINO: ( Half addressing Mrs. Teasdale ) I didn't come here to be insulted.
GROUCHO: That's what you think.
TRENTINO: ( Furiously ) You swine!
GROUCHO: Give me that again!
TRENTINO: You worm!
GROUCHO: Once more!
TRENTINO: You upstart!
GROUCHO: That's it! No man lives who can call a Firefly an upstart.
GROUCHO: ( As he offers the card )
TRENTINO: ( Coldly ) I shall report this indignity the my ( To Mrs. Teasdale - polite but firm ) Mrs. Teasdale, I feel this regrettable occurrence will plunge our countries into war.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Half crying ) This is terrible!
VERA: Uncle, you can't do this!
TRENTINO: ( Politely ) My dear niece I must ask you not to interfere. War is not a woman's ( Rising angrily ) It is every woman's problem. Who supplies the sons? the brothers? the husbands? Who.
VERA: ( Rising angrily ) It is every woman's problem. Who supplies the sons? the brothers? the husbands? Who.
GROUCHO: ( To Vera interrupting ) You keep that up and you'll crab the whole war.
VERA: Carry out this tragic folly if you will But I for one will not be a part of it. I will stay here in Freedonia.
TRENTINO: ( As a faint smile of understanding vanishes from his face ) Very well then, if that's how you feel about it ( suggestive shrug of his shoulders ) My country has spoken. Then it's war?
GROUCHO: Then it's war?
TRENTINO: ( Stiffly ) How're ya fixed for ammunition?
GROUCHO: How're ya fixed for ammunition?
TRENTINO: ( Waves Groucho aside and exits )
GROUCHO: ( Dramatically )
GROUCHO: THEN IT'S WAR!
GROUCHO: GATHER THE FORCES!
GROUCHO: HARNESS THE HORSES!
GROUCHO: THEN IT'S WAR!
SEQUENCE "D": INSERT of newspaper. The newspaper moves up to CAMERA from background as it stops we read the following headlines:
DISSOLVE TO: A SHOT ( in movement ) of a row of shapely legs, obviously those of very pretty girls. The CAMERA moves upward disclosing the faces of the girls, who are sitting in a row in the ante-room of the Secretary of War's office. On the door leading to the Secretary's private office, we see the lettering: PRIVATE. The CAMERA discloses only four or five of these girls, but we know there are more in the room. Bob appears in the doorway leading to the Secretary's office and addresses the first girl - nearest the door.
BOB: The Secretary of War will see you next, Miss.
GIRL: ( To the girl at her right ) Did you hear the one about the woman taking a bath?. Well, she forgot to lock the door. A man came in and said, "I'm a doctor". The woman said, "I'm not sick". and the man said, "that's all right. I'm not a
GIRL: ( To Harpo )
CUT TO: Private office of Secretary of War. The office is cluttered with war implements, maps, etc. The examination of the girl is in progress. She is turning around in the manner of a clothes model. Chico is looking her over.
CHICO: ( To girl ) You look pretty good to me - but very still need a spy - Have you got any credentials?
CHICO: ( Taking a very good look ) You got credentials all right.
CHICO: This is fine. Put it back.
CHICO: I think I better take another look at that paper. I look this over later now I look you over. If you want to be a spy, you gotta be in good condition. I better examine you.
CHICO: ( Looking at the paper ) I look this over later now I look you over. If you want to be a spy, you gotta be in good condition. I better examine you.
CHICO: ( Listening to girl's heart beat ) There's something wrong I think I'm getting Whiteman's band.
CHICO: According to my watch it's four Now look a woman spy is a-gotta make love to men. Come on let's see you make love.
CHICO: Now you feel my pulse.
CUT TO: The Secretary of War's office. Chico at the phone.
CHICO: ( To phone ) Send in the next girl. ( He hangs receiver up )
GROUCHO: By the way, are you sure we need a Sure, we gotta have a spy. If we no got a spy who's gonna tell the other side what we're doing?
CHICO: Sure, we gotta have a spy. If we no got a spy who's gonna tell the other side what we're doing?
CHICO: ( To Harpo ) Have you got any credentials?
GROUCHO: I don't go in much for modern art. Have you got anything by one of the old masters?
GROUCHO: I'm glad I didn't ask you for "Washington Crossing the Delaware".
CHICO: ( To Harpo ) We've gotta have somebody who knows how to get secrets from men. You know how to make love?
GROUCHO: ( To Harpo ) You ought to carry a spare.
GROUCHO: ( Looking at Harpo ) We're certainly living in a marvelous ( Laughing ) That's very funny. he certainly fooled me. He'll make a good spy.
CHICO: ( Laughing ) That's very funny. he certainly fooled me. He'll make a good spy.
GROUCHO: ( Examining tattoos ) If we can't use him as a spy, we can have him framed.
CHICO: Say, that's a nice collection. You oughta have a catalogue. Let's take a look at number eighteen.
GROUCHO: Let's take a look at number eighteen.
CHICO: ( Referring to picture of girl ) Say, she's all right. You got-a her phone number?
CHICO: ( Laughing ) That's a funny one!
CHICO: ( To Harpo ) I think we can use you. Here's a spy glass. go ahead and do some
CHICO: He's going to make a good spy. that's not bad for the first day.
GROUCHO: ( Turning and looking at Chico ) That's not bad for any day.
GROUCHO: ( To Chico ) Maybe my eyes are bad - you take a
GROUCHO: You're right about that guy I think we've got something.
CHICO: I don't know about us, but I know he's-a got something.
FADE OUT: END OF SEQUENCE "D"
SEQUENCE "E": FADE IN to living room of Mrs. Teasdale's home. It is a smartly appointed room. Its main feature for our purposes is a winding stairway leading to bedrooms above. In the absence of Mrs. Teasdale, Vera is seated by fireplace while Ambassador Trentino is excitedly pacing up and down.
TRENTINO: This is all Firefly's fault that idiot, that fool.
VERA: I thought everything was working out Fine nothing! I didn't want war. My plan was to marry Mrs. Teasdale and overthrow Firefly.
TRENTINO: Fine nothing! I didn't want war. My plan was to marry Mrs. Teasdale and overthrow Firefly.
VERA: Maybe you can still win the old dame over why not try to
MRS. TEASDALE: ( As she descends stairs ) I'm so sorry I've kept you waiting.
TRENTINO: ( Taking her hand ) Mrs. Teasdale. ( Kisses her hand ) I deeply regret the unfortunate affair with his Excellency, but his attitude left me no alternative.
VERA: Maybe the war can still be averted.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Hopefully ) Oh, if only it could.
TRENTINO: Mrs. Teasdale, I'm willing to pocket my pride and do anything I can to make up with his Excellency.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Solicitously ) Oh, would you.?
TRENTINO: For you, I would do anything.
VERA: If only we can get his Excellency to listen to reason.
TRENTINO: ( To Mrs. Teasdale ) Perhaps he will listen to you.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Talking into phone ) Hello, your Excellency?. I hate to disturb you I know you're a very busy man, but I must see you at
GROUCHO: ( Into phone ) Why not come over here? You can come in the back way and no one'll see you.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Into phone ) But your Excellency, you must oh thank you please hurry. ( She hangs up phone. and walks over to her guests ) He'll be right over.
GROUCHO: ( Hanging on to pole addressing Trentino ) If I knew you were here I would've brought some cheese.
GROUCHO: ( To Trentino ) So you've come to ask for clemency! I'll give the enemy no quarter not a dime.
MRS. TEASDALE: But Your Excellency the Ambassador is here on a friendly visit. He came to ask you to patch up the Let him patch up his own breeches.
GROUCHO: Let him patch up his own breeches.
TRENTINO: ( To Groucho ignoring Groucho's remark ) I'm sorry we lost our tempers. I'm willing to forget if you are.
GROUCHO: ( Like an injured woman ) You ask me to forget. Why, my ancestors would rise from their graves. and I'd only have to bury them again. A Firefly never I am willing to apologize. I'm willing to do anything to prevent this war.
TRENTINO: I am willing to apologize. I'm willing to do anything to prevent this war.
GROUCHO: Nothing doing!! I've taken a lease on the battlefield. I'd lose my deposit, besides, I've already ordered the ammunition.
VERA: ( Putting her arms around Groucho ) Oh, Your Excellency, isn't there something I can do?
GROUCHO: Yes, but I'll talk to you about that when we're alone.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Coming to Groucho ) Oh, won't you reconsider.
GROUCHO: ( Relenting ) Well, maybe I am a little headstrong. But, you know, it's awfully hard to forget what he called ( Indicating Trentino )
TRENTINO: What I called you. Why, what did I call you?
GROUCHO: I don't remember.
TRENTINO: ( With a little chuckle ) Oh you mean. worm?
GROUCHO: ( Smiling coyly ) No, that wasn't it.
TRENTINO: Was it swine?
GROUCHO: ( Same attitude as above ) No. it was a seven letter word.
TRENTINO: ( Thinking, then with a broad smile ) Oh yes! UPSTART!
GROUCHO: That's it.
TRENTINO: ( Spluttering and stuttering ) Why - er - Mrs. Teasdale - this is an outrage! This man is impossible. My course is clear. this means ( Turns to go and turns and yells to Groucho ) You RUNT!
GROUCHO: I still like UPSTART the best.
VERA: ( Putting her hand to her brow ) Oh, this is dreadful! If you'll excuse me I'll go to my room.
GROUCHO: Of course. Who ever heard of calling off a war after ordering all the
GROUCHO: The plans of war are in this envelope. I want you to take care of them no one will ever suspect you.
GROUCHO: Guard them with your life. don't leave them out of your sight. If the enemy gets those papers we're lost. If they don't get them, we're lost. Can't you see what I'm trying to tell you? I love you. Mrs. Teasdale, you're the salt of the earth. They don't come any better than you.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Modestly, with a bashful lowering of her eyes ) Now er
GROUCHO: Well they might come better but they don't come any bigger. and the bigger the better. The bigger the betta you've got on a horse, the more you lose, and speaking about horses, why don't you marry me. Come, come say yes and you'll never see me again. I'll go 'way if it means your happiness.
MRS. TEASDALE: Oh, your Excellency, you take me off my feet.
GROUCHO: ( Angrily ) Swell chance I've got taking you off your feet.
GROUCHO: Gloria may I call you Gloria?
MRS. TEASDALE: Why why of course.
GROUCHO: You can call me Gloria too. Gloria what a beautiful name. When I was born my mother named me Gloria two minutes later she found out her
BOB: ( Coming into scene ) ( Looks up and sees Bob. without being a bit disturbed. remains on her lap ) Take a letter.
GROUCHO: ( Looks up and sees Bob. without being a bit disturbed. remains on her lap ) Take a letter.
BOB: Who to?
GROUCHO: None of your business. Take another
GROUCHO: Eureka Ammunition Company Gentlemen Your shipment of sailor hats arrived this morning by freight Gloria, I could go for you in a big However, the rifles you sent were a little rusty and I don't say that to everybody Have not received last month's drawing account. How come? Your neck is like a swan. Yours very truly. Now read it back.
BOB: ( Reading from pad ) Eureka Ammunition Company, Gentlemen. Your shipment of sailor hats arrived this morning by freight. Gloria, I could go for you in a big way. However, the rifles you sent were a little rusty and I don't say that to everybody. Have not received last month's drawing account; how come your neck is like a swan. Yours very truly.
GROUCHO: ( Rising to his feet ) They'll know I mean business then they get that letter. see that that gets out immediately and that goes for you too.
BOB: Yes, sir.
GROUCHO: ( Turning to Mrs. Teasdale ) Gloria, much as I hate to leave, I'd be crazy to stay here.
MRS. TEASDALE: Well, if you must go
GROUCHO: ( To Harpo ) I'm not taking any more chances. You sit in the sidecar.
FADE OUT: END OF SEQUENCE "E"
SEQUENCE "F": FADE INTO
FADE INTO: Insert of program
PREMIER DANSEUSE: VERA TRENTINO ( To Chico and Harpo )
VERA TRENTINO: DISSOLVE - Through program to stage of opera house - company singing aria from some well-known opera. CUT TO orchestra box nearest proscenium arch. Harpo and Chico are there fast asleep leaning on each other. They are dressed in Inverness capes - wearing their high hats. Chico has a red band across his shirt-front on which is embossed "Secretary of War" in gold letters. An usher enters box with two people in the
USHER: ( To Chico and Harpo ) I'm sorry gentlemen - but you have the wrong seats.
CHICO: ( Awakening ) That's all right. We're not enjoying ourselves anyway.
USHER: You belong in that box over there -
CHICO: ( To Harpo ) Come on
TRENTINO: ( Stopping him ) Wait a minute. Mrs. Teasdale is in the box below. The plans of war are in her purse you've got to get them I don't care how, but get them and when you do, bring them to 492 North Myrtle Road you'd better write that down.
CUT TO: LOWER BOX
LOWER BOX: MRS. TEASDALE
MRS. TEASDALE: I wonder what's keeping His Never mind His Excellency you gotta your pocketbook?
CHICO: Never mind His Excellency you gotta your pocketbook?
MRS. TEASDALE: Yes why?
CHICO: I wanna powder my nose.
CUT TO: UPPER BOX Harpo takes a look at apple on the boy's head reaches down in box and comes up with a bow and arrow. He takes a good aim and lets the arrow fly. It hits its mark and the apple falls to the ground. William Tell, having arrived at spot from which he's going to shoot, turns to take aim and sees that the apple is gone. He picks up another, at the base of an apple tree and starts in direction of his son. CUT TO Harpo, who is watching William Tell. He reaches down into box and brings up another arrow takes aim and lets arrow fly. Again it hits its mark and the apple falls to ground. William Tell, reaching his place, turns to take aim and is bewildered at the sight of the second missing apple. The tree is bare and there are no more apples around. A whistle is heard coming over scene. William Tell turns in direction of the whistle and we CUT TO Harpo whistling with his fingers in his mouth. Reaching down into the box, he brings up a bag of apples and dumps all the apples onto the stage. CUT TO: Lower box.
UPPER BOX: Harpo takes a look at apple on the boy's head reaches down in box and comes up with a bow and arrow. He takes a good aim and lets the arrow fly. It hits its mark and the apple falls to the ground. William Tell, having arrived at spot from which he's going to shoot, turns to take aim and sees that the apple is gone. He picks up another, at the base of an apple tree and starts in direction of his son. CUT TO Harpo, who is watching William Tell. He reaches down into box and brings up another arrow takes aim and lets arrow fly. Again it hits its mark and the apple falls to ground. William Tell, reaching his place, turns to take aim and is bewildered at the sight of the second missing apple. The tree is bare and there are no more apples around. A whistle is heard coming over scene. William Tell turns in direction of the whistle and we CUT TO Harpo whistling with his fingers in his mouth. Reaching down into the box, he brings up a bag of apples and dumps all the apples onto the stage. CUT TO: Lower box.
CHICO: He's-a not missing anything. He's in the dressing room with Vera
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Jealously ) In her dressing room? Why, what could he be doing there?
CHICO: He could be playing solitaire, but I don't think so.
MRS. TEASDALE: What's the matter with you?
CHICO: What's the matter with you?
MRS. TEASDALE: You haven't been still a moment since you've been here. You act as if you had neurosis
CHICO: I no gotta new-rosis. My uncle he's- a got a flower shop he's-a gotta
VERA: ( With exaggerated romance ) I shall dance for you tonight as I've never danced before.
GROUCHO: This is a fine thing to be doing at my age.
VERA: Are you getting tired?
GROUCHO: ( Still working leg ) Not at all. When I was a boy back on the farm I used to pump my own
VALET: ( Singing to hero ) Your love is waiting for you, my Fetch my hat - my hat - my hat
HERO: Fetch my hat - my hat - my hat
HERO: ( Continuing singing ) Fetch my boots ( Harpo throws boots on stage Hero continues ) Bring me my sword ( Harpo throws a sword on stage )
CHICO: He no got it -
MRS. TEASDALE: This is dreadful I must see His Excellency at once -
VERA: Are you sure you're not tired?
GROUCHO: Tired! I'd like to stretch this into a week -
MRS. TEASDALE: I hope I'm not interrupting.
GROUCHO: ( Still pumping - looks over his shoulder at Mrs. Teasdale ) Take a seat you're next. ( He lets go of Vera's leg - and she exits )
MRS. TEASDALE: Your Excellency, something terrible has just happened.
GROUCHO: That's all right. I'll fix you right
MRS. TEASDALE: My purse has been stolen the plans of war are in it.
GROUCHO: ( Shouts )
MRS. TEASDALE: I I may be wrong, but I suspect the Secretary of War.
GROUCHO: ( Still pacing wildly ) Don't bother me - I'm thinking What was that?
MRS. TEASDALE: I said - I suspect the Secretary of
GROUCHO: ( Stopping dead in his tracks )
MRS. TEASDALE: But -
GROUCHO: ( Paying no attention ) You satisfied your selfish whims, while nations tottered, dynasties rocked and the world plunged headlong into a chasm of chaos and oblivion ( Throws her an arch look ) Not bad, eh?
CHICO: This is-a fine - you do a good job - you make-a no trouble and you waste- a no time. Come on, we take-a the plans to the Ambassador. You gotta the address?
GROUCHO: Hands up!
CHICO: ( Smiling ) You no gotta no gun.
GROUCHO: Who said I had a gun. Gimme those plans, you paper snatchers
GROUCHO: ( Handing paper to Mrs. Teasdale ) Here put these plans where no one will ever find them - sleep on them.
VERA: ( Apologetically ) I'm sorry boys I did my best it's all my fault.
CHICO: It's not-a your fault. It's-a his I fix it for you to getta the plans you getta the plans then you losa- a the plans now we no gotta the plans of war.
FADE OUT: END OF SEQUENCE "F"
SEQUENCE "G": FADE IN - Mrs. Teasdale's living room. Night. Subdued light. We begin with an EXTREME CLOSE CLOSE SHOT of a hand depositing the plans of war in a vault. This vault is about the height of a man, the door flush with wall. The CAMERA TRUCKS back and discloses that the one depositing the papers is Mrs. Teasdale she is in negligee. She closes the vault door, pulls a cord, closing a pair of drapes which hide the vault. The CAMERA PANS to the balcony above where Vera Trentino, also in negligee, is watching the action in the living room below. She tiptoes quietly from the scene. Downstairs, Mrs. Teasdale turns out the center table light and moves toward the stairway. CUT TO Vera Trentino's bedroom. Vera comes toward window, raises it quietly and waves a handkerchief, evidently signalling somebody below. CUT TO EXTERIOR of house. Chico and Harpo are waving back to signify that they have caught the signal. The boys try to raise the window which is located next to the main entrance, but it is locked and they can't budge it.
CHICO: ( Peeved ) It's all your fault. Now we gotta steal the plans again You had 'em on you. you take a bath. and now we no gotta plans of war.
CHICO: ( To Harpo ) You wait here I'll let you in.
VERA: The boys look up and see her.
VERA: ( In a half whisper - mysteriously ) In the safe behind the drapes ( Pointing in the direction of the safe )
CHICO: ( Also in a half whisper ) All right I'll meet you behind the drapes.
VERA: ( In a half whisper ) No, no I mean the plans are in the safe. ( Pointing to safe again )
CHICO: Come on, we gotta no time for that.
CHICO: Wait a minute. we make too much noise. Turn on the radio so they can't hear what we're doing.
CHICO: ( Jerking himself away from Harpo ) What's-a matter, you crazy. ?
CHICO: Come on, we gotta finish the job.
CHICO: ( Into phone after slight pause ) Hello Police department. ? That fellow's crazy. we're in the house already.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: The Teasdale residence is located at 232 Poloma Drive.
CHICO: ( Into phone ) You'll never find us, you gotta the wrong address. we're at 235 Poloma Drive. not 232. Look, it's a white house with a shingle roof shingle shingle ( and sings to illustrate ) Shingle bells, shingle bells, shingle all the way. ( Stops singing ) That's it, you got it. Hurry up, if no get-a here soon, we can't
CHICO: Hey, Skippy.
CHICO: ( Exasperated ) Hey, you never get the safe open that way. ( Looking up at Vera's room ) We gotta try the combination. You gotta the combination?
MRS. TEASDALE: ( After a slight nervous pause ) Hello? Your Excellency? There are burglars in the house. I want you to come right over.
GROUCHO: ( Into phone ) You come over here. There are no burglars in my house.
MRS. TEASDALE: ( Into phone ) But Your Excellency, you must I tell you there are burglars here. Oh, thank you. Please hurry.
CHICO: Light it. Now we blow him up.
CHICO: Wait a minute. we gotta fix it so it don't make-a so much noise. What-a we do? That's fine. Now, nobody hear the
CHICO: That's fine. Now, nobody hear the
GROUCHO: That woman is crazy. there are no burglars around here.
FADE OUT: END OF SEQUENCE "G"
WAR DECLARED!!: This insert goes past the CAMERA as another newspaper comes from the background. The headline reads: -
GROUCHO: ( Pounding his desk ) They're coming. ( He recites the following command to Harpo ) Ride through every village and town wake every citizen up hill and down tell them the enemy comes from afar with a hey-nonny-nonny and a ha-cha-
GROUCHO: There'll be two lamps in the steeple if they're coming by land and one lamp if they're coming by sea.
GROUCHO: They double-crossed me. they're coming by land and sea Be off, my
SEQUENCE "J": DISSOLVE through the shooting of previous scene to STOCK SHOT of artillery fire on battle field - a profile SHOT with all the activity of an actual battle, but without an indication of falling men. DISSOLVE from this to interior of Groucho's headquarters behind the front - a wooden shack. The sound of a distant booming of guns is heard over this scene. On the wall is a large war map with colored thumb tacks indicating the positions of Groucho's men and the enemy. Groucho, in the uniform of a Confederate General, ( a Robert E. Lee make-up ), is studying the war map with a few of his The door flies open and Bob, in a snappy uniform, enters excitedly and breathlessly. He faces Groucho with a quick salute and a click of the heels.
GROUCHO: ( Looking at a tack in a distant sector ) Either there's a fly in the room or we've got a soldier in Africa.
BOB: ( Taking a dispatch from under his belt ) A dispatch from the front, sir.
A GENERAL: ( Solicitously ) Bad news, sir?
GROUCHO: Bad news its disastrous!
GROUCHO: ( Reading from dispatch ) Private Moscowitz quits! ( Groucho rushes to radio operator )
GROUCHO: Clear all wires.
GROUCHO: The enemy has taken Hill 25, throwing twelve Hill-billies out of work. Our front is exposed to the enemy we'll have to bring up the rear. P.S. Have misplaced flag of truce. look in upper lefthand drawer of my
GROUCHO: Late again, eh? You haven't been on time once since this war started. Get out there and fight.
CHICO: I can't do it.
GROUCHO: ( Surprised ) Why not? You're the Secretary of War, aren't you?
CHICO: Yes, but I'm not working for you any more. I'm on the other side.
GROUCHO: ( Like a surprised child ) Is that so? I used to think you were two-faced - but you can't be - or you wouldn't be wearing that one. Now - let's talk this thing over.
GROUCHO: ( Blowing out a puff of smoke ) Now how many men you got in your Well, we gotta one hundred thousand That's not fair we've only got fifty thousand.
CHICO: Well, we gotta one hundred thousand That's not fair we've only got fifty thousand.
GROUCHO: That's not fair we've only got fifty thousand.
CHICO: That's all right. We let you have twenty-five thousand men and we both start even.
GROUCHO: ( Enthusiastically ) That's the spirit fifty-fifty.
CHICO: No. Seventy-five seventy-five.
GROUCHO: Well, we'll let that one go. Now how many battalions you got?
CHICO: We gotta two battalions and one I wish you were still working for me, so I could ask you to resign. How're ya fixed for cavalry?
GROUCHO: I wish you were still working for me, so I could ask you to resign. How're ya fixed for cavalry?
CHICO: I've gotta five thousand men but no That's funny, we've got five thousand horses but no men.
GROUCHO: That's funny, we've got five thousand horses but no men.
CHICO: That's all right our men can ride your horses.
GROUCHO: Not a bad idea. If our horses get tired they can ride your men for a Now, I don't mind letting you have our horses, but you must promise to put them through their maneuvers.
CHICO: Oh, sure. We have horse maneuvers every morning.
GROUCHO: ( Looking at shell ) Acme Ammunition Company, eh? How do you expect to win the war with shells that don't go off? Now, if you were buying your stuff from me, you wouldn't have that trouble. Eureka Ammunition is guaranteed to explode or your money back. Let me show you some samples.
GROUCHO: Bring in No. 47, line 8.
GROUCHO: ( Pointing to gun ) That's our latest number. our sixteen-inch Horowitz gun. ( To Harpo ) Load it up.
GROUCHO: With a gun like that you can kill some of your own men.
CHICO: That's-a pretty good. I'll take a dozen of them.
GROUCHO: Anything else?
CHICO: ( Mentally figuring ) Yes, one gross of bullets, two dozen hand-grenades, three kegs of powder and throw in some matches.
GROUCHO: ( Writing ) Fine. We'll throw in the matches before we make the delivery. By the way, how're you fixed for spys?
CHICO: Fine. We gotta him.
GROUCHO: So! He's on your side, too.
CHICO: Well, with you two fellows on the other side, this country should have no trouble keeping the wolf from the Something must be done immediately. The soldiers are getting discouraged.
GROUCHO: Well, with you two fellows on the other side, this country should have no trouble keeping the wolf from the Something must be done immediately. The soldiers are getting discouraged.
GENERAL: Something must be done immediately. The soldiers are getting discouraged.
TRENTINO: There's only one thing to do. we must capture Firefly.
GENERAL: But how? It's a very dangerous Ask for volunteers. Some one must make the sacrifice someone Here comes Chicolini. Maybe he'll do it. Unless we can make Firefly our prisoner, we're lost.
TRENTINO: ( Standing near widow ) Ask for volunteers. Some one must make the sacrifice someone ( Stops to gaze out of window attracted by off scene roar of motor ) Here comes Chicolini. Maybe he'll do it. ( Walks away from window ) Unless we can make Firefly our prisoner, we're lost.
TRENTINO: Chicolini, you've come just in time. We need a man who's fearless, brave. A man who's willing to die, if All right I'll go out and find Firefly must be captured at any cost.
CHICO: All right I'll go out and find Firefly must be captured at any cost.
TRENTINO: Firefly must be captured at any cost.
CHICO: That's easy, I'll get him for you It must be done right away.
TRENTINO: It must be done right away.
CHICO: I can't do it right away.
GENERAL: Why not?
CHICO: I got a date with a General's wife.
GENERAL: Isn't that a little dangerous?
CHICO: ( To General ) Not unless you find it out.
GROUCHO: Boys, I hate to do this, but if you generals want this war to continue you'll have to take a cut
GROUCHO: We can't afford to pay the money we've been paying. Now I don't want to lay anybody off. My motto in this war is: - "Live and let live".
SYLVANIA: The CAMERA PANS DOWN to the cabin of the dirigible. Chico and Harpo are standing at the open door looking down.
CHICO: Look! That's-a Firefly's We catch him right now.
CUT TO: LONG SHOT miniature of dirigible and rope dangling from it. Then CUT TO - SHOT of rope and hook as it approaches Groucho's headquarters. It hooks onto the roof of the shack and raises it off the ground. CUT TO - LONG SHOT - miniature of dirigible carrying the shack through the air. CUT TO - inside of headquarters.
GROUCHO: ( To generals ) Gentlemen, the overhead is killing us. Everything is going up. If we don't watch ourselves, we'll come down with a crash. Now all those in favor of taking a cut say "aye".
ONE GENERAL: ( Protesting ) But Your Excellency!
GROUCHO: Carried unanimously.
GROUCHO: Now go right out there and fight. You go out there and relieve General Beauregard, and while you're at it, see what General Motors is doing.
GROUCHO: ( To another general ) Call him back he didn't salute
ZEPPO: Father, he didn't salute you either.
GROUCHO: ( Angrily )
GROUCHO: Go out there all of you and bring those generals back dead or
GROUCHO: Why don't those generals come back?
ZEPPO: I'll call them.
GROUCHO: Never mind, I'll go after them myself.
GROUCHO: Hey, Junior!
GROUCHO: Get my rifle.
GROUCHO: I'll get rid of them.
GROUCHO: ( To Zeppo ) Take a letter.
ZEPPO: To whom?
GROUCHO: To whom it may concern. Dear Gloria: The air has done me a world of good. I am five thousand feet above sea level speeding home to you. Can you arrange to meet me at twenty-five hundred feet? which is only asking you to meet me half way. Don't be surprised if I drop in on you any minute. Your fun- loving Dictator.
FADE OUT: END OF SEQUENCE "J"
SEQUENCE "K": FADE IN - to a group of notables standing around a large table. Among them are Mrs. Teasdale and Zeppo. Groucho is the guest of honor, very gaily attired for the occasion. As we FADE INTO this scene, they are singing -
ALL: ( Singing ) Hail, hail, Freedonia. Land of the brave and free!
ZEPPO: My dad is much too great for his position without a question. I'd like to offer this with your permission as a suggestion: I really think he should be king!
ALL: We really think he should be king!
ZEPPO: I really think he should be king!
ALL: He should be king!
SOLO: And wear a crown and everything.
ALL: And everything.
SOLO: I really think he should be king!
ALL: He should be king!
GROUCHO: From what I have been gathering, I think they think I should be king: I think they think I should be king!
ALL: He should be king!
GROUCHO: And wear a crown and everything.
ALL: And everything. He should be king!
GROUCHO: ( Speaking to audience ) You know I think they think I should be king. ( Then turning to the guests - singing ) Although it would please me to govern the throng, suppose I were king and then everything went wrong.
MRS. TEASDALE: The king can do no wrong!
ALL: The king can do no wrong! The king can do no wrong!
GROUCHO: Of course you're All aware a king must have an heir some one to pass the family name along will some one tell me where I'd ever get an heir if a king can do no wrong
ALL: ( Standing up ) The king can do no wrong! ( They all sit down )
GROUCHO: Suppose a pretty dame Into my castle came - And let us say that I was going strong. She might be stuck on me, but what good would it be, if the king can do no wrong.
ALL: ( Standing up ) The king can do to wrong! ( Sitting down )
GROUCHO: King Solomon was game he gave each Girl his name to number them would make a list that long I'll bet his thousand wives led miserable lives if the king can do no wrong.
ALL: ( Remaining seated ) We really think he should be king and wear a crown and everything.
GROUCHO: They think I should - They think I should - They think I should - They think I should be king.
MRS. TEASDALE: My dear friends, in time of peace we should forgive those who fought against us, and so, I have invited our former enemies.
GROUCHO: ( Stopping Harpo as he tries to fit a piece ) No, no, this is the one. ( Picking up a piece and placing it. )
GROUCHO: That was awfully good, I think I'll have a second helping. waiter.
GROUCHO: If I don't stop eating I'll get Would you mind passing the salt?
CHICO: ( Yelling to Harpo ) Hey, she wants some salt.
GROUCHO: ( Yelling to Trentino ) Ambassador, how's the food?
AMBASSADOR TRENTINO: ( Looking up and turning in direction of Groucho ) It's delicious, Your Excellency.
GROUCHO: That's all I wanted to know.
GROUCHO: I couldn't eat another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to introduce to you a man who is a prince of good fellows, generous to a fault, his own worst enemy and a devil in his own hometown.
GROUCHO: Thanks, I didn't expect to be called upon. However, in conclusion I want to tell you that I promised Mrs. Teasdale I'd marry her if we won the war.. Well, we won the war and I'm stuck. to the victor belongs the spoils.
GROUCHO: In union there is strength.
GROUCHO: I feel that we are taking a step in the right direction, and that's what I call balling the Jack.
GROUCHO: Now is not the time for political temporizing, all interests must be sacrificed for the common weal.
GROUCHO: All those who want to place their money on the wheel, step inside, faint heart never won fair lady. Money won't grow in your pocket like the hair on your head and now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their party.
THE END: Writers : Bert Kelmer Harry Ruby Grover Jones
