SEVENTH DRAFT: DAVID LYNCH December 9, 1983
DAVID LYNCH: December 9, 1983
BLACK: FADE IN to the dark eyes of the mysterious face of the REVEREND MOTHER RAMALLO, who sits against smooth black rock. Her eyes are deep blue-within-blue and her skin is a haunting translucent white. Her voice ECHOES as if in a great cavern.
IRULAN: She sees that SARDAUKAR OFFICERS are surrounding him now, speaking to him. Irulan turns and leaves. The Emperor moves away from his officers to the center of the now-empty room. He drops his golden robe from his shoulders. He stands in his elegant black uniform, thinking. The Reverend Mother is ushered in and the Sardaukar Officers leave her alone with the Emperor.
EMPEROR: She sees that SARDAUKAR OFFICERS are surrounding him now, speaking to him. Irulan turns and leaves. The Emperor moves away from his officers to the center of the now-empty room. He drops his golden robe from his shoulders. He stands in his elegant black uniform, thinking. The Reverend Mother is ushered in and the Sardaukar Officers leave her alone with the Emperor.
EMPEROR: ( quickly ) A Third Stage Guild Navigator will be here within minutes!
REVEREND MOTHER: We felt his presence.
EMPEROR: I shall want telepathy during his visit and a report when we're finished.
REVEREND MOTHER: Their minds are so.. They move in strange directions..
EMPEROR: REVEREND MOTHER Forced spice evolution of humans changes many things.. I must sit close to him.
REVEREND MOTHER: Forced spice evolution of humans changes many things.. I must sit close to him.
EMPEROR: He will not permit anyone but me to see him. You must be outside this room.. Do what you can.
REVEREND MOTHER: I am your Truthsayer, my lord. He is here, my lord.
EMPEROR: Leave us.
REVEREND MOTHER: Yes, my Lord.
EMPEROR: ( after she has gone ) We are alone.
NAVIGATOR: We have just folded space from Ix.
EMPEROR: ( extremely nervous ) Yes?. How was your journey?
NAVIGATOR: ( after a long pause ) Many machines on Ix. new machines.
EMPEROR: Oh yes?
NAVIGATOR: Better than those on Richesse.. You are transparent. I see many things. I see plans within plans.
EMPEROR: Is there a problem?. Usually there is a problem when one of you makes a visit.
NAVIGATOR: ( finally ) The answer is within the problem.
NAVIGATOR: I see two Great Houses House Atreides, House Harkonnen feuding. I see you behind it.
EMPEROR: The Navigator breathes the spice-gas heavily and swishes gently in his tank.
NAVIGATOR: You must share with us.
EMPEROR: The Atreides house is building a secret army!. using a technique unknown to us. a technique involving sound. The Duke is becoming more popular in the Landsraad. he could threaten me.. I have ordered House Atreides to occupy Arrakis to mine the spice. thus replacing their enemies the Harkonnens.. House Atreides will not refuse because of the tremendous power they think they will gain. Then, at an appointed time Baron Harkonnen will return to Arrakis and launch a sneak attack on House Atreides. I have promised the Baron five legions of my Sardaukar terror troops.
NAVIGATOR: So the Harkonnens will rid you of House
EMPEROR: 13. INT. HALLWAY - EMPEROR'S PALACE - NIGHT
NAVIGATOR: ( to Reverend Mother, mentally ) Reverend Mother. I will give you the Tleilaxu Path.
EMPEROR: Can you hear me?. If this visit has anything to do with spice.
NAVIGATOR: LISTEN TO ME!! The spice must flow. the spice has given me accelerated evolution for four thousand years. it has enabled you to live two hundred years. the spice helps make the sapho juice, which gives the red-lipped mentats the ability to be living computers. the secret side of spice. the water of life.
NAVIGATOR: .gives the Bene Gesserit sisterhood the metaphysical ability to see beyond.to have superior powers. Our power to fold space is in the spice. Without us, your empire would be lost on isolated scattered planets. You would be lost.
EMPEROR: I can assure you.
NAVIGATOR: Do not interrupt!!! Do not speak lightly of the spice. ONE SMALL POINT.
NAVIGATOR: We ourselves. foresee a slight problem within House Atreides.. Paul.. Paul You mean, of course, Duke Leto Atreides. his father.
EMPEROR: You mean, of course, Duke Leto Atreides. his father.
PAUL: ( whispering ) Here we are now. nineteen light years
PAUL: ( whispering again ) It does look dry..
PAUL: Where are the Harkonnens from here?
PAUL: ( without turning ) I know, Thufir, I'm sitting with my back to the door.
THUFIR: Those sounds could be imitated.
PAUL: I'd know the difference.
THUFIR: ( inner voice ) Yes. Perhaps he would at that.
PAUL: My father sent you to test me. Music then?
GURNEY: No music. I'm packing this for the crossing. Shield practice.
PAUL: Shield practice? Gurney. we had practice this morning... I'm not in the mood.
GURNEY: ( angered ) Not in the mood?! Mood's a thing for cattle and love play. not fighting.
PAUL: I'm sorry Gurney.
GURNEY: Not sorry enough.
GURNEY: ( his voice sounding strange through the forcefield ) Guard yourself for true!
PAUL: ( inner voice ) What's gotten into Gurney? He's not
PAUL: ( strange shielded voice ) Is this what you seek?
GURNEY: ( strange shielded voice ) Good. the slow blade penetrates the shield. but look down.
PAUL: Would you really have drawn my blood?
GURNEY: If you'd fought one whit below your abilities I'd have scratched you a good
PAUL: Things have been so serious here lately.
GURNEY: Yes. I sensed the play in you lad, but this can no longer be play. Tomorrow we leave for Arrakis! Arrakis is real. The Harkonnens are real.
PAUL: Dr. Yueh, do you have any information on the worms of Arrakis?
DR. YUEH: I have obtained a filmbook on a small specimen. only 125 meters long.
PAUL: They smile at each other.
DR. YUEH: There are have been documented sightings of worms as large as 450 meters in the deep desert far from where we'll be in Arakeen.. The desert belt and the south polar regions are marked forbidden.. The storms and the worms. Is it true, that the sand can blow at seven hundred kilometers per hour?
PAUL: The storms and the worms. Is it true, that the sand can blow at seven hundred kilometers per hour?
YUEH: It can render flesh to dust in minutes. And these dry winds can generate tremendous static electricity in the atmosphere. Our body shields won't have enough power to operate in the open air on Well, how do the Fremen survive there?
PAUL: Well, how do the Fremen survive there?
YUEH: We don't know much about the Fremen. They live in the deep desert. some of them in the cities and they have blue- within-blue eyes.
PAUL: ( smiling ) The eyes yes, yes. saturation of the blood by the spice melange. Could the spice affect us in other ways?
THUFIR: Many dangers exist on Arrakis. For one, we know the Harkonnens would not have given up their CHOAM company contract so easily.
PAUL: ( rising ) The Harkonnens are our enemies, yes. but behind them, I suspect, is the Emperor.
THUFIR: You will make a formidable Duke!
PAUL: I know. But if it is a trap then why are we going?
THUFIR: We have our new army. Dr. Yueh, put the weirding module on him.
GURNEY: ( to Yueh ) Precise control..
PAUL: The bull that killed my grandfather. is this an evil omen?
PAUL: ( happily ) ( they shake hands ) I was on my way to say goodbye to you. I have to go on ahead.
DUNCAN: ( they shake hands ) I was on my way to say goodbye to you. I have to go on ahead.
PAUL: Why? I wish you were coming with us.
DUNCAN: It's something for your father. He wants to talk to you. I'll see you in Arrakis. May the hand of God be with you.
PAUL: May the hand of God be with us all,
PAUL: ( diffident ) Thank you for joining me, Paul. ( voice tired ) It will be good to get to our new home and have all this upset behind us.
DUKE LETO: Thank you for joining me, Paul. It will be good to get to our new home and have all this upset behind us.
PAUL: I want you to be proud of me.
DUKE LETO: ( studying the dark sea below ) I'll miss the sea. but a person needs new experiences. they jar something deep inside, allowing him to grow. Without change, something sleeps inside us. and seldom awakens. The sleeper must awaken.
PAUL: Arrakis. Dune. Desert Planet.Arrakis. Desert Planet. moving. moving.
VOICE: The second moon, your moon.
BEAUTIFUL GIRL: Tell me of your homeworld, Usul.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) I know she has come to test him. no man has ever been tested with the box. only Bene Gesserit women. I may lose my son.
PAUL: ( whispering again ) Arrakis. Dune. Desert planet. moving. moving.
REVEREND MOTHER: We'll salvage what we can. but I can tell you.. dear God. for the father.
REVEREND MOTHER: My greatest student. and my greatest disappointment.. He's awake!. He's listening to us. Good. Ready yourself, young Paul Atreides. I want to see you in your mother's chamber in one quarter of an
JESSICA: Paul?. This is very important.
PAUL: Kwisatz Haderach?. For the father.
REVEREND MOTHER: ( angrily ) Jessica. You were told to bear only daughters to the Atreides. Jessica!
JESSICA: It meant so much to him.
REVEREND MOTHER: You thought only of a Duke's desire for a son?. Desires don't figure in this! An Atreides daughter could have been wed to a Harkonnen heir and sealed the breach. We may lose both blood lines now.
JESSICA: I vowed never to regret my decision. I'll pay for my own mistakes.
REVEREND MOTHER: And your son will pay with you.
JESSICA: Paul, this is the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam. She is going to. observe Jessica, you know it must be done. I enjoin you to stand guard at the door and practice the meditation of peace.
REVEREND MOTHER: Jessica, you know it must be done. I enjoin you to stand guard at the door and practice the meditation of peace.
JESSICA: Your Reverence.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) What does she fear? ( out loud ) What about my Father?
JESSICA: Paul. please, Paul. listen to the Reverend Mother and do what she tells you.
REVEREND MOTHER: ( using The Voice ) Now you come here.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) She's using The Voice. ( out loud )
REVEREND MOTHER: ( inner voice ) Some strength there. Surprising! ( out loud ) Come here.
PAUL: What's in the box?
REVEREND MOTHER: Just then, she raises one hand to his neck. Paul sees a glint of metal. He tries to back away.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) The Voice again.
REVEREND MOTHER: I hold at your neck the gom jabbar. Don't pull away or you'll feel that poison. A Duke's son must know about many poisons this one kills only animals.
PAUL: Are you suggesting a Duke's son is an Let us say I suggest you may be human. Your awareness may be powerful enough to control your instincts. Your instincts will be to remove your hand from the box. If you do so you will die. You will feel an itching there. see? Now the itching becomes burning. heat, upon heat, upon heat.
REVEREND MOTHER: Let us say I suggest you may be human. Your awareness may be powerful enough to control your instincts. Your instincts will be to remove your hand from the box. If you do so you will die. You will feel an itching there. see? Now the itching becomes burning. heat, upon heat, upon heat.
PAUL: ( whispering ) It burns.
REVEREND MOTHER: SILENCE. SILENCE. I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through
PAUL: ( inner voice )( struggling to compose himself ) I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through
REVEREND MOTHER: You feel the flesh crisping?
REVEREND MOTHER: Flesh dropping off.
PAUL: ( cannot help the explosion )
THE PAIN!: REVEREND MOTHER NO!! ENOUGH!! Kull wahad! No woman child ever withstood that much. I must have wanted you to fail. Take your hand out of the box and look at it, young human.. Do
REVEREND MOTHER: NO!! ENOUGH!! Kull wahad! No woman child ever withstood that much. I must have wanted you to fail. Take your hand out of the box and look at it, young human.. Do
PAUL: I see the truth of it.
REVEREND MOTHER: ( inner voice ) Could he be the one?. Maybe. but will he be ours to control? ( out loud ) You know when people speak the truth?
PAUL: I know it.
REVEREND MOTHER: Your mother wants you to tell me about your dreams. I only want to know one thing.. Do they come true?
PAUL: Not all of them. I know which ones will.
REVEREND MOTHER: Perhaps you are the Kwisatz Haderach.
PAUL: What is it?
REVEREND MOTHER: ( profoundly ) The person who can be many places at once. the one who bridges space and time.. He will look where we cannot.
PAUL: REVEREND MOTHER Do you know of the Water of Life?. the Truthsayer drug?
REVEREND MOTHER: Do you know of the Water of Life?. the Truthsayer drug?
PAUL: I have heard of it.
REVEREND MOTHER: It is very dangerous. very painful. The Bene Gesserit sisterhood drink it to see within.. There is a place terrifying to us. to women. It is said a man will come. the Kwisatz Haderach. he will go where we cannot. Many men have tried.
PAUL: Did they try and fail?
REVEREND MOTHER: They tried and died..
REVEREND MOTHER: I sense your teachings in him. Ignore the regular order of training. His safety requires The Voice.
PAUL: I've heard enough of my safety. What about my father?. I heard you talking. You speak as if he was dead. Well, he
JESSICA: She tries to hold him.
PAUL: Well he isn't. and he won't die. Tell me he won't die!
REVEREND MOTHER: What can be done has been done.
PAUL: MOTHER! Tell me!
PITER: It is by will alone I set my mind in It is by the juice of Sapho that thoughts acquire speed - The lips acquire stains - The stains become a warning - It is by will alone I set my mind in
PITER: My Lord!
BARON: Piter moves up to the Baron.
PITER: The Atreides will be leaving Caladan soon, Baron, and I have here your answer from Duke Leto.
BARON: What does Leto say, Piter?
PITER: He wishes to inform you that Vendetta as he puts it, using the ancient tongue, the art of Kanly is still alive. He does not wish to meet or speak with you.
BARON: ( swallowing; angry ) I made my peace gesture. the forms of Kanly have been obeyed.
PITER: As you instructed me, I have enlightened your nephews concerning my plan t.
BARON: My plan!
PITER: The plan to crush the Atreides. Feyd, Rabban. go quietly. no other great house of the Landsraad must ever know of the Emperor's aid to the Baron. The entire Landsraad would turn against the Baron and the Emperor.
DOCTOR: Put the pick in there Pete And turn it round real neat.
BARON: ( as the Baron watches the boy ) You're so beautiful my Baron Your skin, love to me Your diseases lovingly cared for For all eternity.
BARON: I will have Arrakis back for myself. he who controls the Spice, controls the universe. and what Piter didn't tell you is we have control of someone who is very close to Duke Leto. This person. this traitor. will be worth more to us than ten legions of Sardaukar.
FEYD: Who is the traitor?
BARON: ( laughs ) I won't tell you who the traitor is or when we'll attack. However, the Duke will die before these eyes and he'll know that it is I Baron Vladimir Harkonnen who encompasses his doom.
JESSICA: ( turning away ) ( inner voice ) I must not fear. Fear is the mind- killer. the little death that brings total obliteration.
DUKE LETO: Soon they'll begin to fold space.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Far off in the control rooms.. Travelling without moving.
DAY: Atreides army soldiers milling, YELLING noisily.
ATREIDES TECHNICIAN: 70. EXT. BLACK ROCK - ARRAKEEN - DAY 71. ( Deleted )
THUFIR: ( into a radio microphone ) Why isn't the shield up yet?
THUFIR: ( inner voice; worried ) We found these sabotage devices too Listen here.. You can here the people of Arrakeen outside.. Can you here the cry "Soo Soo Sook" of the water sellers?
DR. YUEH: Listen here.. You can here the people of Arrakeen outside.. Can you here the cry "Soo Soo Sook" of the water sellers?
JESSICA: So many reminders of the scarcity of Have you noticed the line of palms along the wall. the Harkonnen put them in. to flaunt their water wealth in front of these people.. Each day those palms take enough water to sustain the life of one hundred men.
DR. YUEH: Have you noticed the line of palms along the wall. the Harkonnen put them in. to flaunt their water wealth in front of these people.. Each day those palms take enough water to sustain the life of one hundred men.
JESSICA: The way you say Harkonnen. I didn't know you had so much reason to hate them.
DR. YUEH: ( swiftly ) My wife. you didn't know my wife. ( out loud ) Forgive me. ( inner voice ) . His wife was Bene Gesserit too. the signs are al over him.. They must have killed here. I'm sorry I'm unable to talk about it.
JESSICA: ( out loud ) Forgive me. ( inner voice ) . His wife was Bene Gesserit too. the signs are al over him.. They must have killed here. I'm sorry I'm unable to talk about it.
DR. YUEH: I'm sorry I'm unable to talk about it.
DR. YUEH: The Harkonnens may have tampered medically.. please wait.
JESSICA: ( inner voice; noticing Yueh's hands ) He's hiding something holding something ( She studies his face closely. ) It's not just his wife. He's a good man though. He's probably trying to save my ( We see her mouth. ) I could use The Voice. make him tell me. It would only shame him. ( We see her eyes. ) I must place more trust in my friends. ( We see Yueh turn toward her, fearful. )
PAUL: ( inner voice )
SHADOUT MAPES: I am the Shadout Mapes. the housekeeper.
PAUL: A Fremen. Could she be the operator? I must cleanse the way between us.. You saved my life. and we Fremen pay our debts. It's known to us that you've a traitor in your midst. Who it is we cannot say but we're certain of it.
SHADOUT MAPES: I must cleanse the way between us.. You saved my life. and we Fremen pay our debts. It's known to us that you've a traitor in your midst. Who it is we cannot say but we're certain of it.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) A traitor.
THUFIR: Set up a sonar probe immediately!
DUKE LETO: ( on phone ) Thufir?. anything?. keep looking. ( Inner voice ) .and a traitor. God help us.
THUFIR: ( Mentat voice ) Sector 6 - 80 copy the sixth the summit the eight the quadrant over the ninth plus eighty four circles weave the eighty and call the fourth copy enter nine seven by seven a seven the seven call seven B seven enter the circles call the sixth copy the sixth over the summit.. eight.
DUKE LETO: ( very angry ) The attempt failed. Harkonnen captives have already been taken. We must crush the Harkonnen machine on Arrakis.. You all know what to do. ( Turning towards Gurney ) .Gurney! We desperately need more spice miners. many are threatening to leave on the next shuttle. We need spice drivers, weather scanners, dune men . any with open sand experience. You must persuade them to enlist with us.
GURNEY: They shall come all for violence: their faces shall sup as the east wind. And they shall gather the captivity of the sand.
DUKE LETO: ( squints at Gurney ) Very moving, Gurney. On your way. and take care of Dr. Kynes until Paul and I arrive. We will not be prisoners here in this place.
GURNEY: ( artfully easing the Duke's anger ) Behold as a wild ass in the desert go I forth to my work.
MENTAL IMAGES: 89. INT. CONTROL ROOM - HEIGHLINER
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) I must speak with you Leto!
JESSICA: ( staring at the blue-eyed woman waiting for possible danger. ) I am the Shadout Mapes, your housekeeper, Noble Born. What are your orders.
SHADOUT MAPES: I am the Shadout Mapes, your housekeeper, Noble Born. What are your orders.
JESSICA: You may refer to me as "my lady." I am not noble born. I'm the bound concubine of Duke Leto mother of the heir designate.. "Shadout". that's an ancient word.
MAPES: ( strangely asked ) You know the ancient tongues?
JESSICA: I know the Bhotani Jib and Chakobsa, all the hunting languages.
MAPES: As the legend says.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) That's it! The Missionaria Protectiva has been here planting protective legends against a day of Bene Gesserit need. And that day has come. I must play out this ( out loud ) I know the Dark things and the way of the Great Mother. Miseces prejin.
MAPES: My lady, I. the weapon was sent as a gift if you should prove to be the one.
JESSICA: And the means of my death should I prove Now we will see which way the decision
MAPES: Do you know this my lady?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) It could only be one thing.. ( out loud ) It's a crysknife.
MAPES: Say it not lightly. Do you know its meaning?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) Here is why this Fremen has taken service with me, to ask that one question. Delay is as dangerous as the wrong answer. Shadout is Chakobsa. knife, in Chakobsa is. maker of death. ( out loud ) It's a maker.
MAPES: My lady, when one has lived with prophecy for so long, the moment of revelation is a
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) There's more here. yes! ( out loud ) Mapes, you've sheathed that blade
MAPES: Take the water of my life!
DAY: The Duke, Paul and SEVERAL ARMED GUARDS enter a tunnel to a `thopter landing pad which is illuminated by a shaft of light coming from a chimney-like exit above. DR. KYNES and his Fremen guard are standing next to Gurney.
KYNES: ( to Gurney ) So, this is Leto the Just.
GURNEY: ( sharply ) I hope I made myself clear. You may call him "The Duke," "My lord," or "Sire." And there is a more ancient term you might keep in mind "Noble Born."
KYNES: ( inner voice ) Play out your little comedy while you can
DAY: The two parties meet and are introduced.
DUKE LETO: So you are Dr. Kynes, the Imperial I prefer the more ancient term, planetologist. Noble Born.
KYNES: ( turning to Gurney ) I prefer the more ancient term, planetologist. Noble Born.
DUKE LETO: This is my son, Paul.
PAUL: Are you a Fremen?
KYNES: I am a servant of the His Majesty the Emperor. I have served His Majesty on Arrakis long enough for my eyes to change.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) He's hiding something.
DUKE LETO: I understand we have you to thank for these stillsuits, Doctor.
KYNES: They are Fremen suits. I hope they fit well, my lord.
PAUL: "Your gift is a blessing of the river."
KYNES: ( inner voice ) The Mahdi will greet you with holy words and your gifts will be a blessing. ( spoken, nonchalantly ) Most of the desert natives here are a superstitious lot. They mean no harm. With your permission, I will check the security of your suits.
GURNEY: ( angrily ) The Duke is to be addresses as.
KYNES: ( leaping forward to protect his Duke ) It's all right Gurney.
GURNEY: ( leaping forward to protect his Duke ) It's all right Gurney.
DUKE LETO: It's all right Gurney.
GURNEY: Yes, Sire.
KYNES: It's a high-efficiency filter and heat exchange system. Perspiration passes through the first layer and is gathered in the second. The salt is separated. Breathing and walking provide the pumping action. The reclaimed water circulates to catchpockets from which you can drink through this tube at your neck. Urine and feces are processed in the thigh pads. Should you be in the open desert, remember to breathe in through your mouth, out through the nose tubes.
DUKE LETO: My thanks.
KYNES: With your permission. You've worn a stillsuit before?
KYNES: You've worn a stillsuit before?
PAUL: Your suit is fitted desert fashion. Who told you how to do that?
KYNES: Your suit is fitted desert fashion. Who told you how to do that?
PAUL: No one. It. seemed the proper way.
KYNES: That it is. He shall know your ways as if born to We're wasting time, Sire.
GURNEY: We're wasting time, Sire.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) I must speak with you Leto!
KYNES: Southeast over the Shield Wall. That's where I told your sandmaster to concentrate his harvesting.
PAUL: Will we see a worm?
KYNES: Where there is spice and spice mining there are always worms.
PAUL: Why do they come?
KYNES: Why do they come?
PAUL: Why do they come?
KYNES: To protect their territory. Vibrations attract them.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) I've registered him now. a knife is a sheath on his left arm. He's strong. a person born to command. He's hiding many ( out loud, suddenly ) Is there a relationship between the worms and the spice?
GURNEY: The young master is a trained Mentat, an advanced student of Prana Bindu has studied under some of the finest teachers in the Universe.
KYNES: As I said. they defend the spice sands. As to their relationship with the spice. who knows.
GURNEY: Dust cloud ahead, Sire.
KYNES: That's it. spice mining. no other cloud quite like it. See the spotters over it? They're watching for wormsign. the telltale sand waves. Seismic probes on the surface, too Sire. worms can travel too deep for their waves to show. Looks like a good patch of spice.
DUKE LETO: Wormsign? Is it wormsign?
KYNES: Yes!. worm. Big one! You've got sharp eyes Sire.. May I?
KYNES: ( into radio, after having found the frequency ) Calling Harvester Pad Nine. Wormsign!
VOICE: ( over radio ) Who calls Pad Nine?
GURNEY: ( quickly ) Don't mention the Duke. This is an uncoded channel.
KYNES: Unlisted flight northeast of you. wormsign on intercept course. estimated contact fifteen minutes.
VOICE: ( over radio ) Have sighting confirmed. Stand by for fix. Contact in sixteen minutes minus. Very precise estimate. Who is on that unlisted
DUKE LETO: What happens now?
KYNES: The carryall will come and lift off the spice harvester. Try and get in close over the harvester. you'll find this interesting Sire.
KYNES: They'll work until the very last minute.
VOICE: ( over radio ) Spotter control. no sign of the carryall. it isn't answering.
GURNEY: The worm is eight minutes away, Sire.
VOICE: ( over radio ) Spotter control give me a report by the
DUKE LETO: Damn it. Harkonnens.
VOICE: ( over radio ) Ordered by whom?
DUKE LETO: ( angrily ) Duke Leto Atreides..
VOICE: ( over radio ) Yes. yes, Sire!
DUKE LETO: How many men do you have?
VOICE: ( over radio ) Full crew twenty-six men but Sire, we can't leave this spice.
DUKE LETO: Damn the spice! Get out of there.
DUKE LETO: ( yelling at the men ) Two men in each of the spotters. You!. over here. run!!
KYNES: ( to Paul and Gurney yelling over the noise ) I can't see him yet but he's very close.
DUKE LETO: ( out loud to himself as he watches the men scrambling ) Damn sloppy really damn sloppy.
GURNEY: Come on boys. come on. We're going to be heavy, Sire.
KYNES: ( nervous ) Here he is. We've got to go.
PAUL: ( inner voice as a blinding light comes and goes ) Spice!. pure un-refined spice!
KYNES: ( murmuring ) Bless the Maker and his water. Bless the coming and going of him. May his passage cleanse the world.
DUKE LETO: ( yelling ) What's that you're saying?
KYNES: A spice miner turns and sees Kynes, who remains Paul hears this, then looks to Kynes locks on his Paul looks down as the Duke banks over the 107. EXT. HARVESTER - DESERT - DAY Static electricity is IGNITING in the air and the sand is swirling around the harvester. Then they see it. A wide hole emerges from the sand, glistening spokes within it. The hole is twice the size of the harvester. Suddenly the machine turns and slides into the hole, parts of it EXPLODING. The SOUND is deafening. The Duke's ship is WHINING to stay aloft.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) ( pointing down and yelling ) You are about to witness something few have seen watch! Watch!
KYNES: ( pointing down and yelling ) You are about to witness something few have seen watch! Watch!
GURNEY: Gods, what a monster.
DUKE LETO: Someone is going to pay for this. I This Duke is more concerned over his men than the spice! I must admit. against all better judgement. I like this Duke.
KYNES: ( inner voice as he studies the Duke ) This Duke is more concerned over his men than the spice! I must admit. against all better judgement. I like this Duke.
DUKE LETO: ( happily ) Duncan! What have you discovered about the Fremen, Duncan tell me. Why haven't we heard from you?
DUNCAN: My lord. I suspect so much. I think they are the allies we seek. they are strong and fierce. they do not give their loyalty easily or quickly.. As you know, the Imperium has never been able to take a census of the Fremen. Everyone thinks that there are but few wandering here and there in the desert.. My lord, I suspect an incredible secret has been kept on this planet. that the Fremen exist in vast numbers. vast numbers. and it is they that control Arrakis.
NIGHT: DUKE LETO'S VOICE Guard. Open the door.
DUKE LETO: Sleep well. my son.
PAUL: ( struggling painfully ) Father!. father. drugged.
NIGHT: The Duke walks down the steps to a very narrow passageway. The passageway becomes very dark. Suddenly the Duke hears a strange MEWLING sound. He turns down an even darker passageway. He can hear the shield WHINING in the distance. He almost has to feel his way. Up ahead he sees a shape. He bends down and sees the SHADOUT MAPES dying on the cold stone floor in the darkness. She tries to speak but cannot. She falls. Suddenly the Duke HEARS the shield generator start whining down.
DUKE LETO: What happened? What? The shield!
YUEH: ( with self-disgust ) I've brought House Atreides down. I've destroyed the new army's weirding modules.
DUKE LETO: ( hoarse whisper ) . Why?
YUEH: I wish to kill a man. not you, my dear Duke, but the Baron.. You were dead already. but you will be close to the Baron before you die. You will be tied and drugged but you can still attack. When you see the Baron you will have a new poison tooth. He will want you close so he can gloat over you. One bite on this tooth and a strong exile.
DUKE LETO: No! You mustn't. for in return I will save the lives of your Paul and Jessica. For Paul.
YUEH: No! You mustn't. for in return I will save the lives of your Paul and Jessica. For Paul.
NIGHT: ATREIDES GUARD #1 comes running down the steps and up to the CAPTAIN and a TECHNICIAN.
ATREIDES GUARD: The shield! The shield!
GURNEY: LONG LIVE DUKE LETO! Long live Duke Leto!
TROOPERS: Long live Duke Leto!
BARON: The drug was timed. Dr. Yueh has been very valuable to us.. What a pity you must remain gagged. We can't let ourselves be swayed by your witch's Voice, now, can we?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) Leto. where are you?
BARON: Goodbye, Jessica and goodbye to your sweet son.. I want to spit once on your head. just some spittle on your face what a luxury.
NEFUD: What are your orders, Piter?
PITER: Take them to the desert, as the traitor suggested and worms will destroy the evidence. Their bodies must never be I'd thought of many pleasures with you. It is perhaps better that you die in the innards of a worm. Desire clouds my reason.. That is not good. that is
PITER: ( whispering to Jessica, rubbing the spittle around on her face with his hand, delicately ) I'd thought of many pleasures with you. It is perhaps better that you die in the innards of a worm. Desire clouds my reason.. That is not good. that is
EFFECT: Duncan Idaho kills a Sardaukar soldier and rushes forward frantically. His eyes blaze intensely. He yells out to the other Atreides soldiers.
DUNCAN: They're on this floor somewhere..
PAUL: ( seeing Duncan ) Duncan!! Duncan!!
ARRAKEEN PALACE: - NIGHT - SHIELD EFFECT Duncan's dead, shielded body slides sparking in the dark against the passageway walls.
BARON: ( to Yueh - quietly ) You wish now to join your wife, is that it, traitor?
YUEH: She lives?
BARON: You wish to join her. join her, then.
BARON: Take him away.
RABBAN: He was in the Palace with the Atreides. I also say he was a spy for the Emperor. Go now! Take him to his desert to die.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) Yueh's sign. He's left a satchell. HARKONNEN GUARD #1 I'd like to have some fun before we kill HARKONNEN GUARD #2 ( laughing ) Of course. what did you think?
PAUL: ( struggling to use The Voice ) Don't touch my mother.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) Oh great mother! He's trying the voice. The Reverend Mother said it could save HARKONNEN GUARD #1 Did you hear a noise from the little one?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) The calming exercise.
PAUL: ( using The Voice ) Remove her gag!
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) JESSICA ( CONT'D ) ( The Voice ) There's no need to fight over me.
JESSICA: ( The Voice ) First cut my son's bonds.
JESSICA: Oh, my God!
BARON: Duke Leto Atreides. Someone's torn the insignia off your uniform. Such
PITER: It was Feyd. It was Feyd? It was Feyd! Where is the ducal signet ring? I must have his ring.
BARON: It was Feyd? It was Feyd! Where is the ducal signet ring? I must have his ring.
PITER: The ring?. he was brought to us as is, Baron. I.
BARON: You killed the doctor too soon, you fool!
DUKE LETO: ( inner voice ) Yueh. Yueh. dead. Paul and Jessica safe. the tooth!
PITER: He's coming round, my Lord.
DUKE LETO: ( inner voice ) Wait. he must be near.
BARON: Where is your ring?
DUKE LETO: ( very faint ) A. little. closer.. The. water. of my life. for Paul.
BARON: He's crying! He's crying! He's crying, Piter. What does he mean?
DUKE LETO: We hear a CRUNCH, hear a tumultuous RUSHING SOUND as Piter's face is pushed forcibly away. The Baron is turning, a dumbfounded look on his face. He drops the plate, and backs away. There is a tremendous ROARING. Bits of visions of Caladan rush through Leto's ever-darkening MENTAL IMAGES: 134. through 134A. ( Deleted )
JESSICA: Leto! Leto!
PAUL: I know I have NO FEELINGS!! Why?
BARON: ( screaming ) I'm alive!!! I'm alive!!!
PAUL: I can't maintain any altitude. we'll never reach the safety of rock. Maybe that small rock.
JESSICA: Where are we do you think?
PAUL: The South Polar regions. the forbidden area. We must make it to that rock.
PAUL: He jumps out of his seat.
JESSICA: Bring these satchels!
PAUL: ( at doorway ) Hurry This crashing may bring a worm.
JESSICA: ( starting to cry ) A million deaths are not enough for ( inner voice )( reacting to his mother's tears ) Where are my feelings. I feel for no
PAUL: ( inner voice )( reacting to his mother's tears ) Where are my feelings. I feel for no
PAUL: ( inner voice ) The second moon. from the dreams.
PAUL: Listen to me!. you wanted to know about my dreams. and I've just had a waking dream. do you know why?.
JESSICA: Calm yourself/
PAUL: The spice! It's in everything here. The air, the soil, the food. It's like the Truthsayer drug... It's a poison!!!! You knew the spice would change me. But thanks to your teachings it's changed my consciousness. I can see it. I can see Is he..?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) Is he..?
PAUL: You carry my unborn sister in your womb!
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) He knows.
PAUL: You and your Bene Gesserit sisterhood. I'm not your Kwisatz Haderach. I'm something different, something unexpected! I'm a seed. I am so much more. You don't begin to know me.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Father. now I have become a killer and I will continue to kill until I have avenged your death. ( out loud )
BARON: ( very excited ) Rabban!!. we're knee deep in Atreides blood! We've gutted them. We've gutted ( laughs )
BARON: Rabban, Rabban. I place you in charge of Arrakis. It's yours to squeeze, as I promised. I want you to squeeze and squeeze and squeeze. Give me spice! Drive them into utter submission. You must not show the slightest pity or mercy. as only you can. Never stop! Go.. Show no mercy!
RABBAN: Yes, my lord Baron.
BARON: ( to Feyd ) And when we've crushed these people enough I'll send in you Feyd. they'll cheer you as a rescuer. lovely Feyd. really a lovely boy. ( suddenly he smiles and screams ) Where's my doctor?
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Yueh's left the plans for the weirding
PAUL: We have to get to that mountain of rock. We have entered the time when all will turn against us and seek our lives.
PAUL: ( returning ) Remember. walk without rhythm and we won't attract a worm. it'll go to the ( puts in her noseplug ) I'm ready.
JESSICA: ( puts in her noseplug ) I'm ready.
PAUL: Keep going.
PAUL: ( screaming ) It's deafening!
JESSICA: ( screaming ) It's deafening!
PAUL: ( screaming ) I can't. I can't.
JESSICA: I can't. I can't.
PAUL: Drum sand!
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Cinnamon. the spice! ( out loud ) Do you smell it?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) I know the secret. The worm is the spice. the spice is the worm.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) I know the secret. The worm is the spice. the spice is the worm.
JESSICA: She presses against the narrow ledge that is left after the worm assault.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) A thumper.
JESSICA: ( crying ) What's happened?. Why did it leave?
PAUL: ( breathing heavily ) Someone started another thumper.. We're not alone.
JESSICA: ( whispering ) Man-carved steps.
PAUL: ( whispering )
STILGAR: Perhaps these are the ones Mapes told us Are you trained in the ways of the desert?
STILGAR: ( to Jessica ) Are you trained in the ways of the desert?
JESSICA: No, but many consider my training I will take the boy-man. he shall have sanctuary in my tribe.
STILGAR: I will take the boy-man. he shall have sanctuary in my tribe.
STILGAR: Stop! Get back!! She has the weirding way. Why didn't you tell us! Great gods. if you can do this to the strongest of us you're worth ten times your weight of water. As a leader of my people I give you my bond: teach us this weirding way and you both shall have sanctuary. Your water shall mingle with our water.
JESSICA: Then I will teach you our way of battle.. you have the word bond of a Bene Gesserit.
A FREMEN: It is the legend.
CHANI: I am Chani, daughter of Liet.. I would not have permitted you to harm my tribe.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) From my dream. so beautiful. Liet.. is this Kynes' daughter?
CHANI: Come with me. I'll show you an easier way
STILGAR: ( to Paul, as they meet ) You have strength. real strength. You shall be known as Usul, which is the strength of the base of the pillar. This is your secret name in our troop. But you must choose the name of manhood which we will call you openly.
PAUL: ( thinking ) What do you call the mouse shadow in the second moon?
STILGAR: We call that one Muad'dib.
PAUL: Could I be known as Paul Muad'dib?
STILGAR: You are Paul Muad'dib, and your mother shall be a Sayyadina among us.. We welcome you.
CHANI: Seitch Tabr.
JESSICA: She looks at Paul. He, too, notices.
PAUL: Wind traps. huge ones.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Water on Arrakis!!! I have seen this place in a dream. ( out loud ) A treasure.
STILGAR: Greater than treasure, Usul. We have thousands of such caches. Only a few of us know them all. When we have enough. we shall change the face of Arrakis.
MONK: We sense that you may be the "voice from the outer world". Both moons told us of you. You must pass tests before we will know. you must conquer the beast of the desert, both his outer and his deadly inner powers. Speak to us. from the outer world.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) I am only a seed. ( out loud ) I am Usul. Paul Muad'dib.
CROWDS: ( loud murmur ) The legend.
MONK: The legend.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) No one ever dreamed there would be so ( out loud ) Our shared enemy the Harkonnens, are once again in control of Arrakis. Stilgar, your leader, has asked me and my mother to crush the Harkonnens. We must do more than this. We must totally destroy all spice production on Arrakis. The Guild and the entire universe depends on spice. "He who can destroy a thing, controls a I will take one hundred of your warriors and train them. This one hundred will train the thousands that remain. When the spice flow stops, all eyes will turn to Arrakis. The Baron and the Emperor himself will be forced to deal with us. Arrakis will become the center of the ( inner voice ) The dream unfolds.
PAUL: The weirding way has long been a Bene Gesserit secret. With my mother's help, my father isolated an element of the weirding way and externalised it.
ORATO: The Fremen laugh the rock doesn't move. A Fremen with a lasgun tries to cut it. Paul motions him back, slightly.
PAUL: Move back!
PAUL: The sound shatters the obelisk to pieces. The one hundred Fremen YELL with surprise and awe.
100 FREMEN: This is part of the weirding way that we will teach you. Some thoughts have a certain sound. that being the equivalent to a form. Through sound and motion you will be able to paralyze nerves, shatter bones, set fires, suffocate an enemy or burst his organs.. We will kill until no Harkonnen breathes Arrakeen air.
PAUL: This is part of the weirding way that we will teach you. Some thoughts have a certain sound. that being the equivalent to a form. Through sound and motion you will be able to paralyze nerves, shatter bones, set fires, suffocate an enemy or burst his organs.. We will kill until no Harkonnen breathes Arrakeen air.
100 FREMEN: ( inner voice ) To avenge my father, I will turn you into killing machines.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) To avenge my father, I will turn you into killing machines.
STILGAR: Sayyadina. Our Reverend Mother tells me she is too old. She has been calling through space and time for you to come and let her rest. She asks that you pass They want me to take the Water of Life. the Truthsayer drug. so dangerous, yet. we must move swiftly if we're to secure our place among these Fremen. I will try to pass within.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) They want me to take the Water of Life. the Truthsayer drug. so dangerous, yet. we must move swiftly if we're to secure our place among these Fremen. ( out loud ) I will try to pass within.
STILGAR: Death may be the result.. Are you sure?
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) I must do this for Paul, but what of my unborn child?
NIGHT: Fremen carry the Fremen REVEREND MOTHER RAMALLO in on a litter. The old Reverend Mother is old a frail yet extremely beautiful and mysterious. She turns to Paul and Jessica with a strange look.
STILGAR: ( whispering to Paul ) Do you know the Water of Life?. Come. .Watch. the mystery of mysteries. the end and the beginning.
STILGAR: The Water of Life.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) The most lethal poison in the Universe.
REVEREND MOTHER: . Many men have tried.
PAUL: Did they try and fail?
REVEREND MOTHER: They tried and died.
NIGHT: Stilgar and Paul return to the ledge above the Hall of Rites. A MONK PRIEST steps forward, addresses the crowd, silencing them. The other monks move back carrying their smoking cleansing bags.
MONK #1: One among us has consented to enter the rite. She will attempt to pass within that we not lose the strength of our Reverend Mother.
PAUL: ( inner voice )( turning to his mother ) What if she should fail?
MONK #1: Jessica drinks.
JESSICA: ( inner voice ) The ultimate awareness spectrum narcotic. I must transform the poison configuration within my body. the blue must be made
NIGHT: We see Jessica sitting, shoulders tight and spasming straining, her eyelids half-closed and 193. ( Deleted )
NIGHT: The old Reverend Mother slowly extends a hand toward Jessica's shoulder.
NIGHT: REVEREND MOTHER RAMALLO You should have told us.
JESSICA: What is this?. Is this what kills the men who enter here?
NIGHT: The old Reverend Mother Ramallo slumps forward onto the stone, dead. The crowd waits. The corpse is tenderly removed. Jessica very slowly opens her eyes and looks about her. The monk holds the jug to her lips.
MONK: Change it that we may all drink of it.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) She did it!
NIGHT: Paul continues to stare at Chani. He moves to her. Chani turns. Paul is at her side. Their eyes meet and lock.
CHANI: ( whispering ) Come with me.
PAUL: Chani.. I love you. I've always loved
BARON: ( takes a drink ) Feyd, even though he's aging, Thufir is one of the finest Mentats in the Universe. and he's mine, Feyd. all mine.. Quiet now.
FEYD: I will.
BARON: Oh Thufir, I see they've installed your heart plug already.. Don't be angry. Everyone gets one here. But this is not why we're here. We've brought you a little cat, Thufir. You must care for it if you wish to live. A poison has been introduced into you, Thufir Hawat. By milking this smooth little cat body each day you receive your antidote. it must be done each day.. Also, you must do something for me if you wish to live. You know I lost Piter, my dear Mentat.
FEYD: All I can see is an Atreides that I want to kill.
BARON: Feyd, no, no! Thufir's a Harkonnen now, aren't you Thufir?
THUFIR: ( inner voice ) My dear Duke. how I have failed you.
HARAH: What will you call her?
JESSICA: As they lift Alia for Jessica to see.
ALIA: 210. INT. TRAINING ROOM - SIETCH TABR - NIGHT
PAUL: Activate your weirding modules.
PAUL: Set the range for two meters.
PAUL: ( points to robot ) The arm.
KORBA: ( aiming the module ) Motion. Chuuk-sa.
PAUL: Motion. Chuuk-sa.
KORBA: He fires the module and the arm of the robot is shot off. Paul smiles and hits him on the shoulder - Paul walks on.
PAUL: One of the FREMEN calls out to Paul.
A FREMEN: The word `Muad'dib' causes a tremendous power to build. The module shakes violently in his hand - it suddenly fires upwards, and the wall explodes.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) My own name is a killing word. Will it be a healing word as well?
STILGAR: ( to Paul as he applies red colour to the shoulders of several large Fremen men ) Usul. these are fifteen of our fiercest fighters to serve you as your guard. the
PAUL: Stilgar signals, and Fremen run behind them.
RABBAN: What happened? What happened to you? What is he saying?
WOUNDED HARKONNEN: Muad'dib!. Muad'dib!. Muad'dib!.
RABBAN: Who is this Muad'dib?
STILGAR: ( to Paul ) Usul. It is time you become a sandrider. and travel as a Fremen. Take the kiswa maker hook of our sietch and ride as a leader of men.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Only the very strong ones travel this
STILGAR: ( to the others ) Usul has called a big one. Again. it is the legend.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) A sandrider!.
PAUL: ( yelling ) Long live the fighters!
VOICE: Seventeen Great Houses of the Lansraad have reported a significant delay in delivery of spice per CHOAM agreement. This constitutes a serious violation of CHOAM codes. Contact Baron Vladimir Harkonnen immediately.
RABBAN: Falsify the reports. We can't hide it all, tell them we've lost only two hundred harvesters. and forty carryalls. and don't let my uncle know about the destruction of the spice silos.. I will catch this Muad'dib and suck the blood from him!! SUCK THE BLOOD FROM HIM!!!
PAUL: We surprised a band of smugglers.
STILGAR: ( racing into thick smoke ) Too bad. thought they were Harkonnen.
PAUL: The figure stops stunned.
GURNEY: ( peering; whisper of hope ) Paul!! Paul!!
PAUL: Don't you trust your own eyes.
GURNEY: They said you were dead. They said.
GURNEY: You young pup! You young pup!
VOICE: Stand-by. warning. we have just received a coded threat from the Guild. Spice production is in serious jeopardy. Giedi Prime supplying false reports. Guild to visit Emperor in one standard
EMPEROR: What do you mean one last.
EMPEROR: But he was said to.
EMPEROR: Who is this Paula Atreides to the Guild? And why?
HARAH: Your Reverence, I don't wish to upset you, but the other women.
JESSICA: It's the way she speaks of things.
HARAH: But Your Reverence, they won't have her around them.
ALIA: ( screaming little adult voice ) Harah! Would they deny me the right to use this mind?.
JESSICA: 226A. ( Deleted )
EMPEROR: ( firmly ) I want fifty legions of Sardaukar on Arrakis at once.
EMPEROR: This is genocide. the deliberate and systematic destruction of all life on
CHANI: You were calling my name. it frightened
PAUL: Hurry! All I see is darkness.
CHANI: Paul. I will love you forever. in life or in death. let Shai-Hulud judge now. You are my life.
PAUL: ( inner voice ) Now. the test of the water of life. what is it that waits for me in this
JESSICA: Mother - help me!
ALIA!: Mother - help me!
ALIA: Mother - help me!
JESSICA: ( struggling ) Alia! What is it?
ALIA: It's Paul. He's taken the Water of Life.
CHANI: Paul. Paul.
PAUL: Father!. Father! THE SLEEPER HAS
NIGHT: The Rock Ledge of Sietch Tabr is filled with Fedaykin and monks; Chani, Jessica, Gurney and Stilgar stand together near the back. Paul moves out on the Rock Ledge overlooking the Hall of Rites which is crowded with Fremen warriors who chant "Maud'Dib" along with the powerful sounds of the WIND ORGAN and FREMEN war DRUMS. Paul raises his open hand. SILENCE. Only the organ continues with a soft low NOTE. The Fremen wait.
PAUL: Arrakis. Dune. Desert Planet.
PAUL: ( he raises crysknife ) Long live the fighters!
STILGAR: Long live the fighters!
PAUL: Gurney, when the storm hits. set off the atomics. I want an opening through the entire Shield Wall. Stilgar? Do we have
STILGAR: Usul. We have wormsign, the likes of which even God has never seen.
EMPEROR: Bring in that floating fat man. the
EMPEROR: Why have you brought me here?
BARON: Your Highness. There must be some mistake. I never requested your Ah? But your lack of action demanded it. Your dreadful mismanagement, your bad judgement in assigning to Rabban the governorship.. You forced me to come here and set things straight. Bring in the messenger.
EMPEROR: Ah? But your lack of action demanded it. Your dreadful mismanagement, your bad judgement in assigning to Rabban the governorship.. You forced me to come here and set things straight. Bring in the messenger.
A VOICE: Bring in the messenger.
ALIA: I am the messenger from Muad'dib. Poor Emperor, I'm afraid my brother won't be very pleased with you.
EMPEROR: Silence!. I do not court your brother's
REVEREND MOTHER: ( struggling, speaking ) Kill this child!! She's an abomination!! Kill her. ( points to Alia, who is smiling at her ) Get out of my mind!!!
ALIA: Not until you tell them both who I really Sister of Paul Muad'dib. Paul's sister. Paul is Muad'dib?!
REVEREND MOTHER: ( strained speech void of emotion ) Sister of Paul Muad'dib. Paul's sister. Paul is Muad'dib?!
EMPEROR: Paul's sister. Paul is Muad'dib?!
PAUL: ( laughs )( to Gurney and Stilgar ) Alia keeps pace with the storm.
PAUL: Gurney, now!
GURNEY: ( they put on their hoods )
ALIA: My brother is coming. with many Fremen
EMPEROR: Not impossible. I told you. He is here Majesty, into the ship!
ALIA: Not impossible. I told you. He is here Majesty, into the ship!
EMPEROR: ( to his officers )( rising ) Release the Sardaukar. Baron. give this little abomination to the storm.
BARON: I have her, Majesty!
PAUL: Gurney. I see Thufir Hawat among the captives. Let him stand free.
GURNEY: My Lord?
PAUL: Let him stand free!
FEYD: ( to Thufir ) The antidote.
GURNEY: ( gestures to Thufir ) Thufir. Come.
PAUL: I mean this, Thufir. If you are to strike, do it now. Three. generations. of you.
PAUL: ( to the guards ) Carry this noble Atreides warrior away. Do him all honor.
PAUL: Emperor Shadam the IV. there are Guild Heighliners above us containing many Great Houses of the Lansraad.. SEND THEM
BACK!: How dare you speak to me.
EMPEROR: How dare you speak to me.
GUILDSMAN #2: ( speaking into electric microphone ) Stop your speaking!!
PAUL: ( to the Guildsmen ) Good. You have some idea of what I would do but I will tell it to one who has never been seen. one who hides deep in the Heighliner control rooms. He will hear it ( fear )
GUILDSMEN #3: ( fear )
REVEREND MOTHER: Stop him, Jessica!
JESSICA: Stop him yourself.
PAUL: You saw a part of what the race needs in the beginning. In time you perverted the truth. You sought to control human breeding and intermix a select few according to a selfish master plan. How little you understand.
REVEREND MOTHER: You mustn't speak of.
PAUL: ( using The Voice )
SILENCE!: The old woman is shot backwards by the power of his shout. Her breath is knocked out of her.
FEDAYKIN #1: .and his word shall carry death eternal to those who stand against the righteous.
FEYD: The righteous!
PAUL: ( to Emperor ) There is a Harkonnen among you. Give the Harkonnen a blade and let him stand forth.
EMPEROR: If Feyd wishes, he can meet you with my blade in his hand.
FEYD: I wish it.
GURNEY: This is a Harkonnen animal. Let me, please, my Lord.
PAUL: The Emperor's blade.
FEYD: Why prolong the inevitable? I will kill you! I will kill him!
CHANI: Paul is up instantly and he circles with Feyd.
FEYD: ( smiling ) Who is the little one? A pet, perhaps? Will she deserve my special attentions?
FEYD: ( whispering ) You see. your death. my blade will finish you.
FEDAYKIN #2: Usul no longer needs the weirding module. Now, I will tell you how it will be. Irulan shall be my wife, opening the way for an Atreides to take the throne.
PAUL: Now, I will tell you how it will be. Irulan shall be my wife, opening the way for an Atreides to take the throne.
EMPEROR: I sit on the throne!!
PAUL: You will sit on a throne on Selusa Secundus, your prison planet. Either that or you will die.
JESSICA: Think on it Chani. We who carry the name of concubine. history will call us
PAUL: The Fremen have the word of Muad'dib. They will have their Holy War to cleanse the Universe. they will have Arrakis. Dune. their planet. There will be flowing water here open to the sky and rich green oases. For the spice there will always be some desert. There will be fierce winds and trials to toughen men. We Fremen have a saying. "God created Arrakis to train the One cannot go against the word of God.
ALIA: And how can this be?
THE END: This script was found in INFlow. It was shameless taken off from somewhere else, may god, copyright owners and people who worked hard and were not credited forgive us. Writers : David Lynch Frank Herbert
