THE CHANGE-UP: Written by Jon Lucas & Scott Moore
DAVE: Sorry Hank.
PLEASE DON'T--: Honey, that's not-- Maybe if you-- She snatches a tin of baby powder and swings it about like a mace, knocking over the diaper caddy, the wipes, the lotion -- and dispersing a cloud of white powder all over the nursery. Blinded and SNEEZING, Dave manages to stay on point and change the diaper like Van Damme at the end of Bloodsport.
DAVE (CONT'D): Can't-see ...must...persevere... He finishes changing Sarah, places her back in her crib, then picks up Sarah's twin brother, PETER, from his crib -- which is good because he's been SLAMMING his head against the wall.
DAVE (CONT'D): Come on, buddy, we've talked about the head thing-- Dave places Peter on the changing table and opens his diaper. It's only wet, and Dave, pleasantly relieved, reaches for a fresh diaper...
DAVE (CONT'D): Oh no.
DAVE: Please, sweetheart, not my-- Honey, Daddy needs those--
DAVE: Take me with you Magnum P. I... Before long Dave is CRYING like a schoolgirl.
DAVE (CONT'D): Please take me with you...
DAVE: Aren't they? Yes. Always. (to passing SECRETARY) Good morning, Rebecca.
DAVE: All but signed.
(SMILING): Really? I hadn't noticed.
DAVE: Thank you, sir.
DAVE: No sir, absolutely not. So sorry. Dave quickly undoes his tie as Flemming turns down a hallway. SABRINA McARDLE, cute young paralegal, falls into step with Dave, stymieing laughter.
SABRINA MCARDLE: Really? The dog track?
DAVE: Last week he told me my shoes were "dangerously Italian."
SABRINA MCARDLE: (laughing, handing him docs) Amalgamated signing statements.
DAVE: Thanks, Sabrina.
SABRINA MCARDLE: Have a good one... She smiles and breezes back down the hallway. Dave stops and watches her go, lust in his eyes.
GLADYS: For shame, Mr. Lockwood! For shame! You are a married man!
DAVE: I have no idea what you're talking about, Gladys... Reddening, he snatches a huge pile of pink message slips and hurries towards his office. She follows him, scolding:
GLADYS: With children.
DAVE: Yes, thank you, I almost forgot about them for like two seconds...
GLADYS: The only thing that harlot needs to put in her mouth is a sandwich.
DAVE: Gladys, I'm a grown man, okay? He angrily punches "SPEAKER" on his RINGING phone as he reties his tie with a more traditional knot.
DAVE (CONT'D): Lockwood. A shrill, horribly impersonated British accent fills Dave's office -- as well as all of the surrounding offices.
DAVE: Jesus, Mitch, I'm at work--
DAVE: Dude, how stoned are you?
INTERCUT WITH:: MITCH PLANKO, 30, shirtless, Dodgers hat backwards, sitting on a futon in his sparse white apartment, smoking a bong shaped like a shotgun. Beat. He drops the horrible accent:
MITCH: I'm pretty stoned.
DAVE: Come on, it's 10 in the morning.
MITCH: Dude, guess what? Great news.
DAVE: What?
MITCH: I found a futon on the street.
DAVE: That is great news.
MITCH: I sort of had to fight a bum for it -- is that bad?
DAVE: Kind of. Is there a reason you're calling or--?
MITCH: Are you gonna bitch out on tonight? You are, aren't you. Dave, half-listening, sits at his desk and answers emails.
MITCH (CONT'D): Dodgers-Giants, dude! We haven't missed one of these in like 20 years! Don't be a vajeen!
DAVE: Dude, I'm coming--
MITCH: You always do this! You never make time for your friends anymore and I'm sorry to be the one to tell you this, but people are starting to talk. Feelings are getting hurt.
DAVE: Really? Whose feelings?
MITCH: Not mine, because, like a samurai, I have trained myself to feel nothing except revenge and honor, but other people -- nameless, other, more sensitive people -- are hurt, and they think you need to treasure your friendships a little bit more. (exhaling massive bong rip) How concerned should I be that my new futon smells like death?
DAVE: (distracted, typing) Look, just, what time are you picking me up tonight?
MITCH: If you bail I will rape you.
DAVE: Dude, I get it, I'm coming--
MITCH: In your eye. I will eye-rape you.
REPEATEDLY--: Just then there's a knock on Mitch's apartment door.
MITCH: Shit. Mitch starts waving away the pot smoke.
MITCH (CONT'D): Gotta go, pick you up at six--!
MITCH (CONT'D): One sec, Dad! The smoke clears and Mitch jogs to the door and opens it to reveal his father, MITCH, SR., 60's, friendly, in a suit, holding a pile of mail.
MITCH: Oh thanks, I always forget. They hug, and Mitch takes the mail and, without looking at it, chucks it onto a HUGE PILE OF OLD MAIL in the corner.
MITCH: No! Honestly, it's my new futon, it smells like illegal drugs.
MITCH: You got it, Dad.
MITCH: Which one? "Give Gonorrhea The Boot" or "Samir's Pet Shack Our Low Low Prices Are Snake-sational?"
MITCH: Actually, the real shame is that Samir paid me in fucking organic bird seed, but whatever... He glares at several crates of BIRD SEED by the door.
(AWKWARD MOMENT): Anyway. I was just in the neighborhood, wanted to check in. How you doing, cash-wise?
MITCH: I'm a little tight, actually, Pops. Especially vis a vis, you know, the whole bird seed situation.
MITCH: Can you make it a grand? Mitch's dad smiles to hide his disappointment and hands his 30-year-old son a roll of hundred dollar bills.
MITCH: Yeeeah...I'm not really sure I'm a "work" guy, you know what I mean? Plus, I've been getting a ton of auditions recently, so...
MITCH: Thanks, pop. Bones. Mitch, Sr. smiles and awkwardly bumps his son's fist.
MITCH (CONT'D): Batting cages next weekend?
CARA: Daddy daddy, which is your favorite butterfly, the Southern Monarch or the Many-Spotted Skipperling? Dave glances at the book as he washes the twins.
DAVE: Oh, I'm a Many-Spotted Skipperling man all the way. The Southern Monarch is just a glorified moth.
(VERY SERIOUS): Yes. I tend to agree... Dave smiles. Then his handsome wife JAMIE, 30's, blows into the bathroom in a suit and starts removing her makeup.
JAMIE: What a day. Dr. Klein lost the twins immunization record, the wireless went down, and Cara got bullied in ballet class again.
CARA: Nicolette Peters keeps knocking me over during the battement glisse.
DAVE: Oh, I'm sorry, sugar-bug... Dave looks genuinely concerned. Cara just shrugs and keeps reading her butterfly book. Jamie whispers to him:
JAMIE: We need to remind her to keep striving for verbal resolution.
DAVE: Right, of course. Jamie finally notices Dave's foam-covered face, and softens.
JAMIE: And how was your day, monster man? Before Dave can answer, the doorbell rings, DING-DONG! They exchange the weary smile of parents who never see each other.
JAMIE (CONT'D): He's early.
DAVE: Of course he's early. All he does all day is eat hummus and masturbate.
MITCH: Whatup bitches!
(LAUGHING): Really? He takes Cara and playfully -- and incredibly recklessly -- flips her in the air.
MITCH: How's my favorite ballerina?!
CARA: I'm good! Are you coming to my recital on Thursday?!
MITCH: Oh no, honey, the only style of dancing I support is exotic... He plunks her on the floor and blows into
MITCH: Jesus Christ you could feed Africa with this fridge... As Jamie starts prepping a salad across the kitchen, Mitch raids the fridge, packing his cargo pants with kid's snacks, bagels, yogurts, juice boxes, everything.
MITCH (CONT'D): These leftovers from Morton's?
JAMIE: Oh no, hon, those are super old-- Too late -- Mitch is already eating the very old steak.
MITCH: Chimichurri. score. As Mitch chews, he eyes Jamie chopping vegetables.
MITCH (CONT'D): You look hot by the way, Jame. Jamie laughs but clearly doesn't mind the flirtation.
JAMIE: Thanks... sort of...?
MITCH: No really. I never would've guessed twins.
JAMIE: Annnd that's probably enough--
MITCH: Is Dave still meeting your needs sexually? Jamie just laughs, shaking her head, unbelievable.
MITCH (CONT'D): Oh, did I tell you I ran into Miss Hickam last week at Starbucks?
JAMIE: Our old kindergarten teacher?!
MITCH: Yeah. She always liked Dave better than me...
JAMIE: Honey, everyone likes Dave better than you.
MITCH: Fair enough. Anyway, I tried to get her number, but she goes "I don't date former students," so I go, "great, do you fuck former students?" and then she calls me a "potty-mouth degenerate" and runs out without her coffee. So I got a free venti macchiato, which is cool-
MITCH: Awww! Come to Uncle Mitch... Dave hands the twins to Mitch, and they COO, impishly cute.
MITCH (CONT'D): Oh my God, they smell like heaven had sex with a dryer sheet. (loudly to babies)
(LAUGHING): What?! No! They're fine!
MITCH: Really? The one on the left looks a little downsy.
(JAMIE GASPS): Kidding! Kidding. (aside, to Dave) A little bit though, right? Ignoring him, Dave fastens the twins into their Bouncy Seats.
DAVE: I'll be back right after the game, okay, Pumpkin?
JAMIE: Whenever. Have fun.
MITCH: See you, Jame!
JAMIE: Always a pleasure, Mitch. Mitch steals THREE PEARS and some TULIPS as he exits...
DAVE: Yeah, I'm good.
MITCH: Really? You're going to make me drink alone?
DAVE: Yeah, well, you're driving, so... Mitch shrugs and slides the spare beer into his chest pocket.
MITCH: Oh, dude: great news.
DAVE: You found another futon?
MITCH: That's awesome, because I'm made of emotional Teflon and words can't hurt me anymore. No: I auditioned for a major movie role yesterday.
DAVE: Nice. What movie?
MITCH: It's called Busted Dreams 4. It's about a renegade coroner who reads minds named Jake Action. It's like a sexy Mentalist.
DAVE: Sounds cool.
MITCH: Yeah, I read for the part of Steve Action, Jake's troubled younger brother with a secret, and I fucking killed it. I cried like five times during the audition and it's a fucking action movie. Plus I'm the spitting image of the dude who plays Jake Action, so...
DAVE: I hope you get it, man.
MITCH: Yeah, it could be my Raging Bull. Plus I'd get to kill a lot of women, which is cool. (offering him a joint) Hotbox?
DAVE: No, man, I got a big day tomorrow, I can't get wasted tonight.
MITCH: Change-up -- fuck he's good!
DAVE: He's no Fernando.
MITCH: Of course not. Fernando is like The Highlander. There can be only one.
DAVE: (toasting his beer)
DAVE: OH! So finish your story! The girl calls you up...?
MITCH: Right! So she calls me up, it's like 3 in the morning--
DAVE: What's her name?
MITCH: Tatiana.
DAVE: Incredible. What's her last name? Mitch just looks at him.
MITCH: Tatiana Calls-Me-At-3-In-The- Morning-And-Wants-To-Fuck-stein, what the fuck, who cares?
DAVE: Is she hot? She is, right? Oh my God I already have a boner!
(DISTURBED): Maybe we should do this later...
DAVE: NO! Keep going! I need these stories, man! They're all I have. Mitch registers the desperation in his married friend's eyes.
MITCH: Okay, well, you're in luck, because Tatiana is stupid fucking hot. Beautiful face, legs a mile long, perfect ass, blonde hair, and huuuge boobs.
DAVE: Oh my God how big?
MITCH: Double E.
DAVE: Oh my God she sounds like Sabrina.
MITCH: Who's Sabrina?
DAVE: This hot paralegal in my office.
MITCH: Is she on your Cancer List?
DAVE: What's a Cancer List?
MITCH: Don't all married dudes have a Cancer List? No? Like the first three chicks you would bang if your wife suddenly died of cancer?
DAVE: That's sick, man. Jamie is the mother of my children...
(DISGUSTED): But yes, if I had a Cancer List, Sabrina would be the first on it.
MITCH: Who's number two? Fergie--?
DAVE: Just finish your story, man! I'm dying over here!
MITCH: Fine. So Tatiana's packing double E's, which means like 20 plus pounds of breastmeat -- yeah, it's almost too much for one man to handle. Thank God I'm the son of a butcher and have strong hands and wrists. Anyway, she walks in wearing this tight black dress, and you know what she says to me? Dave shakes his head, on the edge of his bar stool.
MITCH (CONT'D): Nothing. Because all Tatiana wants to do at 3 in the morning is fucky fucky rubber ducky! Dave drunkenly slaps him ten, barely making hand-contact.
MITCH (CONT'D): And look, I'm not one to kiss and tell... (downing another shot) but this chick is insatiable. She wants it in every position: Missionary, wheelbarrow, Reverse Wheelbarrow, Assassin--
DAVE: I don't even know what those are!
MITCH: No one does! It gets so intense that my nose starts bleeding. Yeah, so I'm bleeding all over this chick and she's fucking digging it.
MITCH (CONT'D): It's like some weird Dracula Anne Rice shit, and I'm fading in and out of consciousness, and then, when it's all over, she turns to me and goes: "Tuesday night I'm coming back and we're really going to fuck." Dave just stares at him, glassy-eyed, drunk, emotional.
DAVE: That is maybe the single greatest story I've ever heard in my life.
MITCH: Ah, it's not always like that...
DAVE: I don't know why...I don't know why I've always been in such a rush, you know?
(BURRRRP): do you mean?
DAVE: You remember me in high school, I was always so focussed on getting into a good college, then when I got to college, I was so focussed on getting into a good law school, then in law school I was just trying to land a job at a good firm, then Jamie and I got married and we had Cara right away-- I just feel like and I missed out on all the fun stuff, you know? The sex, the drugs, the bad choices, and now it's too late. I blew it. I pissed away my 20's, and now I'm staring down the barrel a seriously boring life.
MITCH: Oh come on, Jamie is hot!
DAVE: No, I know--
MITCH: I really want to have sex with her!
DAVE: Wait, what?
MITCH: And your kids are adorable! They're like fun little puppies that talk! The bill comes. Dave pulls out a wad of cash, throws it on the table, and stumbles for the door. Mitch lifts one of Dave's twenties off the table and follows him out...
DAVE: Don't get me wrong, I love my kids, I do, I would take a bullet for them, but...remember that heroin addict you dated?
MITCH: Tara? Or Rena? Or Rachel?
DAVE: Jesus, how many heroin addicts have you dated?
MITCH: It's a national scourge, dude.
DAVE: Anyway. Having kids is like dating a heroin addict, only instead of dating them, they move into your house for 18 years. They're laughing one second and crying the next and then they're trying to kill themselves in your bathroom for no reason. They're mean and selfish and they burn through all your money and they steal your shit and they break everything and they stay up all night and they listen to really shitty music and the dirty secret is, no one actually likes kids.
MITCH: Oh come on, you don't mean that--
DAVE: No! It's true. Everyone pretends to like kids because if you don't you look like a huge dick. It's like Drew Barrymore or jazz. No one actually likes them, but if you say that out loud, everybody hates you.
MITCH: Dude, I love Drew Barrymore -- have you seen Boys on the Side? They weave across a LARGE PLAZA, stumbling for Mitch's car.
DAVE: I'm just saying: don't fuck up your life like I did, okay?
MITCH: What are you talking about? You've got it all! You've got a huge house full of food and furniture -- shit, your TV is bigger than my car! You have a great job, you make a shit- ton of money, and people respect you, man! My last job involved an ape costume -- do you know what that does to a man? Dave waves him off, not really hearing him. But Mitch is sincere, heartfelt:
MITCH (CONT'D): Plus you've got a hot, extremely fuckable wife who cooks and cleans and takes care of all your needs! It's like having a really hot mom who you can also have sex with!
DAVE: Wait, what--?
MITCH: Also you're never lonely, you always have someone to talk to about your day, plus you get to do all the fun gay couple stuff like go to wine country! You think single guys can go to wine country?! No way! They won't even let us in! You're living the dream, dude! What more do you want?!
DAVE: Tatiana! I want Tatiana! I want sex with strange new women and maybe also with Sabrina if she's single and I want to wake up at noon and smoke weed all afternoon and I want to not think about the needs of four other people 24 hours a day and I want to start reading a novel and actually finish it and I want to take a solid shit because I'm not constantly stressed out and I want to learn how to rollerblade and also I really want to pee...
MITCH: Yeah, me too... They look around the plaza, and their eyes land on the HUGE FOUNTAIN in the middle; a GREEK GODDESS sits atop it.
MITCH (CONT'D): Fountain?
DAVE: Bingo. They stumble over to the fountain, unzip their pants, and, leaning on each other, begin peeing into it. Mitch glances up at the GREEK GODDESS METIS. She scowls down at them.
MITCH: This chick does not look happy.
DAVE: Maybe she has three kids and a job she hates.
MITCH: Dude, enough already.
DAVE: I'm just saying...I envy your life.
MITCH: And that's what's so fucked, because I envy yours.
DAVE: Yeah you don't--
MITCH: I do!
DAVE: No, I do--!
MITCH DAVE: I wish I had your life! I wish I had your life! They're about to say "jinx" when--
MITCH: Ummmmm...? Then all the lights in the city flicker back to life...
DAVE: R-Rolling blackout?
MITCH: I guess...? They continue peeing, a little freaked out.
DAVE: You really have nice flow by the way. Very thick and confident.
MITCH: Thank you. Yours is very steamy.
DAVE: Thank you. My urologist says I run a little warm. Eventually they both finish, tuck in, and zip up. Beat.
DAVE (CONT'D): You good to drive?
MITCH: Now I am.
MITCH: Whose fucking baby is that...? A hand emerges and fumbles on the night stand.
MITCH (CONT'D): And where the fuck is my bong? He groggily rises from the sheets -- only it's not Mitch. It's Dave. His body, his face, everything. Yup, you got it: the single auy and the married guy have switched bodies. We will refer to them by their "brain names," thus while this hungover dude definitely looks like Dave, inside he's Mitch, so that's what we'll call him. The actors, of course, will remain in their bodies. Mitch doesn't know any of this yet.
MITCH (CONT'D): Why are there so many fucking pillows...? He rolls over to see Jamie, sitting up in bed, pulling her breasts out of her tank top, getting ready to nurse the twins. Mitch launches out of bed, suddenly very awake.
JAMIE: What? What's your problem? Mitch shields his eyes with his hands, shocked and disgusted.
MITCH: Oh my god that is so gross! Put your tits away! This isn't Europe!
JAMIE: What are you talking about? Mitch finally notices he's in DAVE'S BEDROOM...
MITCH: Wait: why am I in...? Did I sleep here last night?!
JAMIE: Um, yeah?
MITCH: Did we...?! Panicked, he thrusts his fist like, have sex?!
JAMIE: Are you insane?
MITCH: So why the hell did I wake up in your bed?!
JAMIE: Are you still drunk?
MITCH: Look, just, where's Dave?!
JAMIE: What?
MITCH: Where's fucking Dave?!
JAMIE: Dave is right here! You're Dave! He turns and sees himself in the mirror. Freezes. He is Dave.
MITCH: Oh my God... Oh my God... He slowly touches his new face...
MITCH (CONT'D): I'm a fucking tool.
DAVE: Mitch...?
DAVE: Why am I in your sad apartment--
DAVE: Fine, Jesus, relax-- Dave opens the door to see himself standing there.
DAVE (CONT'D): What the fuck is this...? Dave backpedals, terrified, as Mitch blows inside, furious.
MITCH: I knew it!
(FREAKING OUT): Who the hell are you?! And why do you look like me?! Mitch angles Dave over to the mirror on the otherwise barren wall-and Dave sees he's in Mitch's body... Stunned, he slowly touches his new face... his new hair. . .his new body...
DAVE (CONT'D): Oh my God...
MITCH: I know, dude.
DAVE: I'm a fucking loser...
MITCH: Wait, what? Dave spins, completely awake now:
DAVE: How the fuck did this happen?!
MITCH: How should I know?! Has this ever happened to you before?!
DAVE: What, switching bodies with another human being?! Oh yeah, this shit happens to me like twice a week!
MITCH: Well...I don't want to be you!
DAVE: Oh, you don't want to be me?! No, no, no: I don't want to be you!
MITCH: What's that supposed to mean?!
DAVE: Look, let's just.. .think. How could this have possibly happened...? They pace about the apartment, trying to think... Then:
MITCH: Bingo. Got it. We're dreaming. Dave grabs Mitch's nipple and twists it hard.
MITCH (CONT'D): Ow ow ow, fuck!
DAVE: Not dreaming.
MITCH: First of all, you're a penis. Second of all--
DAVE: Wait, what'd you just say?
MITCH: I called you a penis and--
DAVE: (running out the door) Come on!
DAVE: Remember last night when we peed into that fountain?! As we peed, we wished we had each other's lives!
(REMEMBERING): Oh fuck.
DAVE: Our wishes must've... somehow... come true.
MITCH: I thought wishes came true when you threw a coin into a fountain...
DAVE: Well apparently urine works too.
MITCH: That's bullshit! I would've wished for something way cooler!
MITCH: What are we gonna do when we get to the fountain?!
DAVE: We're gonna hug each other and pee into the fountain and wish our lives back!
MITCH: That might sound really gay! Both men race around the corner onto the plaza and stop cold:
MITCH: Excuse me! Where is the fountain?!
FOREMAN: It's getting restored.
DAVE: Where did you take it?!
FOREMAN: I don't know, chief, I'm not the fountain spokesman, I'm just the guy that fills the fucking hole.
DAVE: Who could tell us where it is?!
FOREMAN: Maybe the district manager?
MITCH: Well of course it's not--!
DAVE: When will it be in the computer?!
DAVE: Tomorrow?! We can't wait until tomorrow, Carla!
MITCH: How can you lose a fountain?.
DAVE: We'll call you tomorrow! Thank you!
MITCH: This is so fucked...
DAVE: We should just go home and lock the
DOORS AND--: Mitch's phone rings in Dave's pocket. Dave hesitates, then answers it, fruitlessly trying to sound like Mitch:
DAVE (CONT'D): This is fucking Mitch?
MITCH: I don't talk like that, dude--
DAVE: Okay ...Okay...Great...Thank you.
MITCH: Who was that?
DAVE: Marty Green, the producer of Busted Dreams 4. Apparently the guy they cast for Steve Action OD'd last night, and the back-up actor got deported, so, alphabetically, you're the next actor on the list. You got the part, man. Mitch covers his mouth like he just won American Idol.
MITCH: Oh my God! Oh my God! Dreams really do come true--!
(REALIZING): Wait, no, this sucks! I'm stuck in your fat dad-body! I can't play Steve Action looking like this!
DAVE: (remembering, stunned) Oh my God: and I've got my closing today.
MITCH: What, is that like a big deal?
DAVE: A big--?! Yeah! Whether or not I make partner is riding on this!
MITCH: So what the hell are we gonna do? PANICKED SILENCE. Then Mitch looks at Dave...
DAVE: No. No. We can't just be each other for a day, Mitch! You have no idea how to be a lawyer!
MITCH: Dude, I'm an actor, a human chameleon, I can do lawyer in my fucking sleep! It's you I'm worried about: you can't act for shit!
DAVE: First of all, it's Busted Dreams 4, okay? It's not The Reader. Second of all, I'm a WASP, I've spent my entire life acting happy and no one has ever questioned my performance, okay?! They look at each other, cooling off a bit...
DAVE (CONT'D): Are...Are we actually considering doing this...?
MITCH: I mean, we have to...right? Both men look highly anxious. Dave glances at the time.
DAVE: All right, well, my meeting starts in 45 minutes. You need to race home, get dressed, then go to my office and find my secretary Gladys-
MITCH: She sounds hot, is she hot?
DAVE: No. Get the merger docs from Gladys and take them to the conference room. All the partners will be there so do not speak to anyone.
MITCH: Really? Because I can vamp--
DAVE: NO! No vamping! And once the meeting starts, you will continue to say nothing. When a partner asks you for the merger documents, you will silently hand them over, okay?
MITCH: Dude, I get it. Play it big, but maintain my reality--
DAVE: No! Play it small. Really small. I've spent the last nine months banging out the terms of this deal, all you have to do is hand over the documents. That's it.
MITCH: Dude, that's easy as fuck. Okay, for me, go home, put on some cool clothes, and get to set -- all the info is on my phone. Once you're there, go to Hair & Makeup and memorize your lines and try not to be a total douche to everyone, okay? This is the film industry. Everyone is really cool. They look at each other, very doubtful that this will work...
MITCH (CONT'D): I'm trusting you, dude...
DAVE: I'm trusting you, too...
MITCH: Power hug. They hug tight then release.
DAVE: Oh hey, you also need to pick up Cara from ballet at 4, okay?
MITCH: (heads for the car) I'm so fucking all over that shit. Off of Dave's deeply unsettled look, we
GLADYS: What in God's name are you wearing?
MITCH: Holy dick, are you Gladys? You're a lynx.
GLADYS: W-What is a lynx?
MITCH: A white-haired cougar. You really should dress sexier, though. The whole angry prison nurse thing is a huge mistake. Gladys GASPS and jams some documents into his hands.
GLADYS: Here are your merger documents! Good day to you! She storms off. Mitch calls after her:
MITCH: Hey, where's my meeting at? She angrily points at a conference room as she stalks off.
MITCH ENTERS: in his ridiculous outfit. The room goes silent, but Mitch's confidence remains sky-high:
MITCH: What up, white people?! Republican Party in the house, am I right?! Come on, let's get started!
MITCH (CONT'D): Dave Lockwood, thanks for coming! Dave Lockwood, I did all the work! Dave Lockwood-san, konichi-wa! (to the room) Anyone need anything? Mimosa, spicy tuna roll? No? We're good? All right, guys, take it away! Mitch takes one of the last open seats -- at the head of the conference table. It's clearly in his boss's seat. Flemming Steel III hovers awkwardly.
MITCH: Fuck yeah! Amalgamated Industries! Finally, even Flemming claps as well, uncomfortable.
THE DEBT-TO-PROJECTED-AMORTIZATION: ratios haven't changed given the recent market fluctuations. Everyone turns to Mitch. Who's not listening. He's drawing pictures of boobs on a yellow legal pad.
MITCH: Right, my bad-- Thinking that's his cue, he slides Flemming the documents.
MITCH: Okay?
MITCH: G-Good?
MITCH: Bad? Bad! They're fucking terrible.
MITCH: Look, everything's cool, let's just sign this fucking thing and go party! We're all rich, who cares?! Mr. Kinkabe angrily jabs his finger at the incredibly short CEO of Amalgamated Industries, TED NORTON, 60's.
MITCH: Relax, dude ... this-this is all part of my master plan.
MITCH: Yes! Check it out: if we drag this out...we make more money, right? Don't we? Of course we do! And then we can bill the fuck out of them! Some of them don't even speak-ah the engrish so goo, you know what I'm saying?
MITCH: Yes...? Is it...? It's not a very good plan, is it.
(SWEATING): We're lawyers! We're above the law!
MITCH: Fuck that, ese. I'm straight up gangster all the way through. Flemming eyes him, determining his fate. Mitch can't breathe.
DAVE: Yo, Mitch Planko is here. Where the fuck is Hair & Makeup?
(POINTING): Um, trailer 3.. ?
DAVE: That's so real. Dave stiffly walks off as the P.A. eyes him, weirded out.
DAVE: No thanks. Hey, what does it mean when it says T.S., or B.T.S.?
(TO HEADSET): Steve Action is coming to set. Dave, alarmed, follows the P.A. out and
DAVE: Wait! W-what kind of movie is this?!
DAVE: I-I'm not familiar with that genre.
DAVE: Oh no. They arrive in
VALTAN: More oil! Make him shiny like fish!
DAVE: Excuse me, are you in charge here? I think there's been some sort of
VALTAN: Mona! Where Mona?! And then MONA -- aging actress with fake boobs -- teeters in wearing a flimsy nightgown and six inch heels.
MONA: I'm here!
VALTAN: Okay guys, here scene: Mitch, you enter with gun -- where gun?! A P.A. runs in with a huge MACHINE GUN WITH ROCKET LAUNCHER ATTACHMENT and gives it to Dave, who takes it limply...
VALTAN (CONT'D): Guard try to stop you, line-line- line, knock him the fuck out, you see Mona asleep in bed, you wake her up and start fuck time, okay? Dave stammers, his head spinning.
MONA: What's my motivation?
VALTAN: Your motivation? Your motivation is show big tit to business traveler in hotel room too scared to order real porno, okay? (blocking the scene) Okay, here shot list: start makeout here, nightgown fall, close-up of titty, candles burning, bouncing titty close-up, moaning, fake sex- in-mouth obscured by hair, more candle, fake backdoor sex obscured by blowing curtain, more candle, her buttock, his buttock, wind blow out candle and finito, okay?
MONA: It's like a poem.
VALTAN: I know, baby, I crush this shit big time. Let's lock it up!
MONA: You wanna bump? Mona snorts a fingernail of coke into her nose.
DAVE: A bump--? Of drugs?
MONA: You're cute. But if you try to actually fuck me I'll set your dick on fire with one of these fucking candles, y'understand me?
DAVE: Is this actually happening?
MONA: Pound away on my upper thigh all you want, that's what it's there for, okay? And no, you can't pay me to give you a real BJ, I don't do that shit anymore. Dave's mouth opens, but nothing comes out. A P.A. guides him out of the room. He's still in a trance...
ANNNND ACTION:: Dave stands there, frozen. Behind the camera, Valtan gestures, go! Dave stumbles into the bedroom, holding the huge machine gun like, well, like a corporate lawyer. A BLOW-DRIED GOON appears with a gun.
BLOW-DRIED GOON: No entry! Dave looks around at the bright lights, the camera, the crew watching him -- and he freezes up. The goon tries again:
BLOWDRIED GOON: I said: No entry!
DAVE: If you let me don't in...don't let me in...If you don't let me in, Paco, I will fuck you dead. That doesn't sound right. If you don't let me Taco-- is his name Paco or Taco? Your penmanship is illegible--
VALTAN: Fuck it, we fix in post! Just knock out guard, wake up girl, and make fuck time! Keep rolling!
DAVE: Oh my goodness it is Lola my long lost lover Lola who...I love. Her.
VALTAN: More sexy! Too stiff! Annnd Mona wake up, surprised! Mona, not much of a better actor than Dave, wakes up -- and SCREAMS deafeningly, like some 1950's horror queen.
MONA: Steve Action?! You perfect bastard!
VALTAN: And now kiss her like savage! Dave, totally grossed out by her, very reluctantly leans in for the kiss. Just before their lips meet, he pulls away.
DAVE: I'm sorry! I can't!
(BEYOND PISSED): What the fuck, man?! She ready for first class trip to fuck town!
DAVE: Look, I can't, I'm married.
VALTAN: No no no, Steve Action throw wife off cliff in last scene.
DAVE: No, I mean, me, in real life. I'm married.
VALTAN: So am I! Mona my wife! Yeah, how stupid is that shit, man?! Now go fake-fuck my wife before owners of house come back from ski vacation to find film crew in master bedroom! Dave just stands there, hopelessly out of place...
BALLET TEACHER: Oh Cara, do try to stay on your toes! Let's start again... In the audience, Mitch straightens: what was that...?
CARA: Shouldn't I be sitting in my carseat?
MITCH: Whatever, you're fine -- hey, what's up with that little blonde bitch who knocked you over? She looks a little surprised by her dad's language.
CARA: That's Nicolette Peters. She does that a lot, actually...
MITCH: So why don't you fight back?
CARA: Um, because you told me not to? You said I should strive for verbal resolution.
MITCH: Fuck verbal resolution! Put that whore on her back and shank her! Do you know how to make a shiv?
CARA: What? Mitch lights a cigarette with the car lighter.
MITCH: Listen to me, kid: the world is a cesspool of cruelty and violence. If someone comes at you with a knife, you gotta put their entire fucking family in the morgue, okay? That's called jailyard justice. Because if you don't come back hard on a bitch, your ass is gonna get sold for a pack of Camel Lights and a jello cup, y'understand? Always solve your problems with violence. Always. Cara nods, alarmed.
CARA: O-Okay Daddy...?
DAVE: I dry-humped a stranger's leg for three hours today... Sitting opposite him, Mitch downs a shot, exhausted.
MITCH: Cry me a river, dude: I dealt with ballet and your ass-hat boss today.
DAVE: Oh no -- what happened at work?
MITCH: Nothing! Nothing. (off Dave's look) I fixed it. (off Dave's look) Okay, but look, it was not my fault! The Japs started peppering me with questions and I had to improvise and then everyone got very emotional and, well... it looks like we're going to court.
DAVE: Oh my God tell me you're kidding.
MITCH: Yeah, your boss was pretty miffed, but then I told him this was all part of my master plan to make more money off our clients--
DAVE: What. 1
MITCH: Yeah, turns out that's totally illegal, but the old man was surprisingly cool about it. Dave sits there, speechless. Mitch eats wings.
MITCH (CONT'D): Hey, your secretary is sort of hot in like a Dame Judi Dench-playing-a- Nazi kind of way. Is she on the fuck team?
(WEAK): I. .I just want to go home...
MITCH: What are you gonna tell Jamie?
DAVE: The truth.
MITCH: Can I highly recommend against that?
DAVE: Hey, sugar-bug. .but she passes right by him and hugs Mitch.
CARA: Hi Daddy! Dave stammers, stung. Mitch hugs her, acting stiff like Dave.
MITCH: Well hello, my precocious daughter!
DAVE: Okay, I don't sound like that-- Just then Jamie hurries past, the twins in her arms, and kisses Mitch on the lips. Both men startle a bit.
JAMIE: Hey.
(TO DAVE): Hi Mitch.
DAVE: This is so weird.
MITCH: No shit.
JAMIE: You staying for dinner? Silence. Then Mitch nudges Dave.
DAVE: Right -- no, thank you. I'm-- Look, Jamie, we really need to talk.
JAMIE: Okay, but make it quick, I've got to put the twins to bed.
DAVE: I. .um...I'm not Mitch.
MITCH: I'm Mitch. Somehow.. .we switched bodies last night. He's Dave. Jamie looks back and forth between them, expressionless.
MITCH (CONT'D): You see, what happened was, we peed into a magic fountain--
DAVE: Then the city moved the fountain--
MITCH: But as soon as they find it, we're going to switch back.
JAMIE: Great! Sounds like a plan.
MITCH: Are you kidding? Is she kidding? Clearly yes. Jamie heads for the stairs when Dave stops her.
DAVE: Baby, please don't--
JAMIE: Okay, Mitch, first of all, don't call me baby, it's creepy. Second of all... what the hell are you talking about?.
DAVE: Look, I can prove it's true! Just, I don't know, just ask me anything that only I -- that only Dave -- would know. Anything.
JAMIE: When's our wedding anniversary? Dave freezes, oh shit.
DAVE: Spring?
JAMIE: Spring?
MITCH: Dude, it's March 24th, even I know that.
DAVE: Why do you know that?
MITCH: So that I can send you a thoughtful card -- what kind of monster are you?
DAVE: Look, just ask me anything else.
JAMIE: I really don't have time to--
MITCH: Jamie, please.
JAMIE: What's my favorite color?
DAVE: You have a favorite color?
MITCH: Mauve.
DAVE: Dude: do you not understand what we're trying to accomplish here?!
MITCH: I'm just saying, look at all the accents in this room -- she loves mauve.
DAVE: Baby -- Jamie -- ask me anything else, something more personal...
JAMIE: Fine, what did we talk about two nights ago...? I was crying...?
DAVE: (taking a stab in the dark) Yourrrrr mother maybe?
JAMIE: That's great, Mitch. Thanks a big bunch. Come on, honey. Jamie steams upstairs, pissed, with Cara in tow. Dave runs his hands through his hair, fuck! Mitch looks appalled:
MITCH: Dude, you are like the worst husband ever.
DAVE: I have a lot on my plate right now, man! You have no idea!
MITCH: Okay, look, calm down: I can hold down the fort for one night.
DAVE: Are you joking? You worked at my job for one day and you almost got arrested! What are you gonna do to my family?!
MITCH: Dude, the kids are already going to bed.
MITCH (CONT'D): I think I can handle watching Two And A Half fucking Men and falling asleep on the couch with the best of 'em. The only roadblock I foresee is: what do I tell Jamie?
DAVE: What do you tell Jamie.. .when?
MITCH: When she wants to have sex tonight.
DAVE: But it's Tuesday.
MITCH: I don't understand. You don't have sex on Tuesdays? A beat. Then Dave starts LAUGHING. It builds. Dave hasn't laughed this hard in a long time. He pats Mitch's cheek.
DAVE: That's adorable. Dave turns and exits the house, still LAUGHING...
DAVE (CONT'D): You know what, give it a shot.
MITCH: Really?! You want me to bang your wife??
DAVE: Sure, have at it! Let me know how it goes...
DAVE: Jesus, it's like a Swedish asylum--
DAVE (CONT'D): Mitch Planko, who the fuck is this? A sexy woman's voice purrs:
DAVE: Tatiana?! Hi! How, um, how are you?
DAVE: Oh my God. Oh my God. He quickly dials a number.
MITCH: Hey dude, I take back everything I said about Two and a Half Men. This is some edgy shit--
DAVE: Tatiana is on her way over!
MITCH: Nice.
DAVE: What do you think I should do?!
MITCH: I think you should fuck her, that's what I think you should do. Jamie looks over at Mitch, weirded out; he gets up and crosses into the hallway for some privacy.
MITCH (CONT'D): Don't blow this for me, dude, she's my Tuesday night regular.
DAVE: But wouldn't I be...sort of... cheating on Jamie? Maybe?
MITCH: No! Cheating is when any part of your penis touches any part of another woman who is not your wife, and last I checked, your wang is safely tucked away in my incredibly lame triple-pleated sport slacks.
DAVE: But my mind is over here, doesn't that count... somehow?
MITCH: Dude, how many women have you fucked in your mind? Thousands?
DAVE: Millions.
MITCH: Right, and that's not cheating, right?
DAVE: Your reasoning is oddly impeccable.
MITCH: I think you're on firm legal ground here, amigo. I say jump that ass.
DAVE: Jesus ...I haven't had sex with another woman since college...
MITCH: Well, it still works the same, but this chick is a lot to handle so pace yourself, okay? She's hornier than a priest at summer camp.
DAVE: Oh my God so am I--. There's a KNOCK at the apartment door. Dave jumps, freaked:
DAVE (CONT'D): Holy shit she's already here! What do I do?!
MITCH: You'll do fine. Just wear a condom, okay? Don't give me AIDS-- Just then WHAM -- the door flies open and a very sexy blonde enters the apartment wearing a long trenchcoat and five inch stiletto heels. She moves towards Dave like a panther.
DAVE: (freezing, breathless) Tatiana...
TATIANA: Are you ready to ride?
DAVE: I-I honestly don't know... She throws off her trenchcoat to reveal she's not wearing anything underneath. Awesome. Less awesome is the fact that she's NINE MONTHS PREGNANT. Massive breasts sit atop a huge, distended, veiny, protruding stomach. Dave recoils.
TATIANA: Why the fuck are you still wearing clothes? As she advances towards him, Dave climbs up the futon.
DAVE: But you're--?! When are you due?!
TATIANA: Any minute now, so let's get our fuck on before this becomes a threesome.
DAVE: Oh god gross! Wait, who's the father? Am I the father?!
TATIANA: No...but you are my daddy...
DAVE: Holy shit you're so heavy--
TATIANA: My tits are aching for you.
DAVE: Actually that's probably just the colostrum coming in, it can be very
PAINFUL--: Tatiana finally stops with the femme fatale routine.
TATIANA: Okay: what's your deal tonight?
DAVE: Nothing! Nothing. I just--
TATIANA: Is it my new haircut?
DAVE: No...?
TATIANA: The trenchcoat? Too cliche?
DAVE: No! I love the coat.
TATIANA: Is it, I don't know, the pregnancy?
DAVE: Well...now that you mention it? Maybe, like, a little?
TATIANA: What the hell?! You picked me up at a Single Mothers Lamaze class! What did you expect?!
(HORRIFIED): I did?! That's terrible! Who would do something like that?! Tatiana angrily crosses the room and -- with considerable effort -- bends over and picks up her trenchcoat.
DAVE (CONT'D): Look, Tatiana, I'm sorry. You're incredibly beautiful, it's just--
TATIANA: (turning, fully naked) What?! I'm not sexy?!
DAVE: Oh my god I can see it kicking. You can, in fact, see the fetus moving around in her belly.
TATIANA: You know what? Fuck you, Mitch. Don't ever call me again. She yanks on her coat and storms out. Dave stammers.
MITCH: Jesus, Dave, it's called a sit-up. Then he sees Jamie's dress land on the bedroom floor, followed by her bra... Mitch exhales:
MITCH (CONT'D): Holy shit, I'm finally going to fuck Jamie. This is my greatest hour! I hope she likes it weird! Then, IN SLOW MOTION, Jamie enters the bathroom, nude, her hair gently blowing in the wind from an open window. She looks insanely hot. Mitch takes her all in, ravenous...
MITCH (CONT'D): Oh my God I am going to ruin her-- And then she sits on the can. And starts taking a dump. Mitch's face drops, horrified.
JAMIE: I have to cool it on the Thai food. I've had the shits all day.
MITCH: Oh my GOD.
JAMIE: Seriously -- light a candle. She keeps shitting. It sounds like Niagara Falls. Thunderous. Foregoing the candle, Mitch covers his nose with his forearm and stumbles out of the bathroom, nauseous...
JAMIE: What is your problem?
MITCH: Look, I am not attracted to you right now, okay?! So just... No means no, all right? No means no... TIGHT ON Jamie rolling over, confused and genuinely hurt...
JAMIE: Are you fucking kidding me?
MITCH: No, it's 3 in the morning, you go do it. You're the mother.
JAMIE: Get the fuck out bed right now and go feed your fucking children or I will fucking cut you! Mitch is already scrambling out of the room, terrified.
MITCH: Yes Jamie I'm sorry Jamie!
DAVE: Oh come on... (answering, panting) What?
MITCH: I always thought your wife was a nice lady but she is neither nice nor a lady! She talks like a dock- worker and she shits like one too! Plus I used to think your kids were adorable but actually they're just really fucking annoying and crazy needy-- Wait, are you jacking off?
DAVE: What? No!
MITCH: So why are you panting?
DAVE: Look, I had to, I never get this kind of privacy anymore.
MITCH: But isn't that sort of...my penis? Dave looks down.
DAVE: Yeah. I guess. Is that weird?
MITCH: I. .don't know?
DAVE: It sort of hooks to the side a bit.
MITCH: Yeah. Go lefty, you'll get better torque.
DAVE: Cool, thanks. Hey, how long have you been shaved down there?
MITCH: It's kind of pro forma now, dude.
DAVE: Really?
MITCH: Yeah, only married dudes still rock dick-fros anymore-- wait: if Tatiana was over earlier, why do you still need to jack off?
DAVE: Yeeeah, Tatiana might not be coming back. Like, ever.
MITCH: What did you do?!
DAVE: Me?! She's nine months pregnant!
MITCH: Oh my God you're so picky!
DAVE: I could see the baby kicking, dude!
MITCH: So what, she's having a girl! It wouldn't have been a little boy tickling your tip! Jesus, I can't believe you fucked up my Tuesday night regular!
DAVE: Relax, Mitch--
MITCH: No! You married guys have no idea how hard it is to build a reliable stable! You don't! It's a full time job! Getting girls' phone numbers, calling them, emailing them, Facebooking them, Twittering them, buying them drinks and dinners and coffees and listening to endless stories about their stupid fucking friends and begging them to touch your wiener on the second date and building an elaborate web of lies so they don't all find out about each other -- it's exhausting! And then poof! In one night, you just casually discard my life's work!
DAVE: Jesus, okay, I'm sorry...
MITCH: Sorry doesn't lick my ballbag every Tuesday night...
DAVE: Look, is there a reason you're calling me at 3 in the morning? Mitch glares back to the twins, who are still WAILING.
MITCH: Yeah, your mean wife is making me feed the kids. What do I do?
DAVE: Have you changed their diapers already?
MITCH: (beat, lying) Yes. Obviously.
DAVE: Okay, take them to the kitchen.
MITCH: Hold on. Mitch puts the phone in his mouth and picks up the SCREAMING TWINS. Carrying them like bags of wheat, he jogs down
THE HALLWAY: as they scream their heads off. He's totally rattled:
MITCH: All right. In the kitchen.
DAVE: Go to the fridge... Mitch turns away from the twins and opens the fridge. He sees a bottle of wine and immediately drinks from the bottle.
MITCH: Yeah?
DAVE: Defrost two bags of breastmilk in the microwave for 3 minutes, then prepare two separate bottles... Mitch grabs a container of cow's milk, sniffs it, turns to give it to the babies -- to discover that Sarah is gone, and Peter is licking an ELECTRICAL SOCKET!
MITCH: Holy fuck! Mitch yanks Peter away just as SPARKS shoot from the socket!
DAVE: What was that?
MITCH: Nothing! Go on! Two bottles...?
DAVE: First: attach the filter to the seal to the nipple... Mitch hears CLINK CLINK and spins to see that Sarah has crawled over to the KNIFE BLOCK and removed a BUTCHER KNIFE and a MEAT CLEAVER and is waving them about like rattles!
MITCH: Oh jesus oh jesus... Mitch approaches her, wide-eyed, tentative -- when Sarah giggles and spastically whips the cleaver at him! He barely sidesteps it, and it impacts into a cupboard door -- F-TWANG!
MITCH (CONT'D): This is so fucked up!
DAVE: I know, right? And make sure you don't allow any air bubbles in. Mitch grabs a pair of tongs and, after a few attempts, snatches the butcher knife from Sarah's hands. Then he scoops her up and deposits her into the sink with her brother. Finally, he slumps over, trying to catch his breath.
MITCH: Dude. Listen to me: you need to go downtown first thing tomorrow morning and you need to find that fucking fountain... He starts pouring cow's milk into the babies' mouths. It splashes all over them, but they manage to lap up some of it.
MITCH (CONT'D): Honestly, I'm really not sure how much more of this shit I can take.
DAVE: Great. So where's the fountain?
DAVE: WHAT? How long can it possibly take you to find your own fountain?!
DAVE (CONT'D): Thanks, Carla, you just ruined my life. Have an awesome day. Dave blows out of there, choking on his fury...
DAVE (CONT'D): Mitch?! Mitch?! Bad news, buddy! Dave bounds up the stairs...
DAVE: Real bad news--! Jamie startles and quickly dries her eyes.
JAMIE: Dave's in the shower.
DAVE: Are you okay...? Dave enters, concerned, and instinctively starts helping her dress the babies. She watches him, a bit confused.
DAVE (CONT'D): Come on, you can tell me. We've been friends forever...
(EXHALES): It's Dave ...he's been acting so strange lately. Last night... Last night he even told me he wasn't attracted to me...
DAVE: Oh my god I'm going to fucking kill him.
JAMIE: Just tell me honestly...is Dave having an affair?
DAVE: No. Jamie. I swear he's not. You're just going through a very temporary rough patch, okay?
JAMIE: Temporary? We've been in this rough patch for years
DAVE: (this is news to him) Y-You have?!
JAMIE: You don't want to hear about this.
DAVE: No I really do. Tell me everything. Jamie looks at him, sees the urgency in his eyes. Frowns.
JAMIE: It's not his fault, really...I love him with all my heart, you know I do, but-you remember Dave's family growing up. They were a mess. They had nothing. Dave's entire childhood was spent looking over the fence, wanting a better life. So he scrimped and saved and worked four jobs at once and put himself through school and built a better life for himself. I've always loved that about him.
JAMIE (CONT'D): No one ever gave him anything. The problem is, now that he's got a good life, he can't turn it off -- he's still looking over the fence, wanting something even better, a second house, more kids, a faster car, a bigger promotion, whatever it is that he thinks will finally make him happy. Dave reddens, defensive; this is hitting very close to home.
DAVE: well poor Jamie! You have an ambitious, hard-working husband who provides for you and your family -- how can you even stand it?
(TAKEN ABACK): No, I know, I should be grateful... and I am...I guess all I'm saying is that Dave is so focussed on what he doesn't have that he can't see what he does. And how long can you stay married to someone who is incapable of ever being happy...? She looks at him, searching. Dave stammers, realizing for the first time just how much trouble his marriage is in... Then:
MITCH: Check it out: I have freckles on my taint! How awesome is that?! They turn to see Mitch in the doorway, buck naked and wet, holding a hand-mirror under his balls. Then he sees Dave.
MITCH (CONT'D): Oh, hey, fag. Why're you here?
MITCH: What the fuck does that even mean?!
DAVE: It means we might be in each other's bodies for a while...
MITCH: What?! No! I can't do this anymore! Your life sucks!
DAVE: My life sucks?! You drive a Fiero-- Jamie calls through the door:
DAVE MITCH: All right, angel! Have a nice day!
MITCH: Yup! Just two dudes chilling in the bathroom, nothing weird about that!
DAVE: Listen to me: I know I complain about my family sometimes, but Jamie and the kids are everything to me... My marriage is falling apart, my job is on the line, and I need you to step up and be the best possible version of me, okay?
MITCH: Dude, honestly, I'm working my nuts off over here. I don't know how to play you any better.
DAVE: Well. Then I'm just gonna have to teach you. Let's start at the
DAVE: This is called a suit. You have to wear one every day, along with-- (holding up tie)
A NECKTIE--: (holding up socks) Black -- not white -- socks-- (holding up dress shoes) Dress shoes, not shower sandals-- (holding up boxers) And underwear.
MITCH: Oh come on!
DAVE: No! No more commando! You are a grown-ass man! Mitch mimics heiling Hitler and starts getting dressed...
DAVE: This is called a schedule. It tells you everything you need to do in a given day. Drop offs. Pick ups. Activities. Playdates. Doctors appointments. You'll notice that there are approximately 50 hours worth of obligations on any given day. Find a way.
DAVE: Always be thinking of your next responsibility. It helps to break your day into four minute increments. And remember: there is no margin for error.
DAVE (CONT'D): If you pick up the twins, the drycleaning and the diaper cream but forget the organic quince paste from that little place on Abbot Kinney, everyone still hates you. You have to be perfect.
DAVE: This is called a grocery store. You buy food here. Before heading to the market, always call Jamie first and ask her if she needs anything. In fact, before you make anV decisions in your life, no matter how small, call your wife first. Think of yourself as a retarded mule lost in the desert: helpless, dumb, and in constant need of direction. Never take initiative, never strike out on your own, never deviate from the plan: you are always wrong. You are a retarded mule lost in the desert.
DAVE: When you're with Jamie, you should always be doing one of three things: asking her permission, complimenting her, or begging her forgiveness. It doesn't matter if she already said you could go to poker night, or if she looks like fucking Mothra in that dress, or if you didn't do anything wrong. Permission, compliments, apologies. That's all anyone wants to hear out of a husband's mouth. Here, let's practice: what's your favorite joke?
MITCH: Umm...? A rabbi, a priest--? BAM! Dave punches Mitch in the nuts.
DAVE: Trick question! No one fucking cares! You're Dave Lockwood, boring dad, you're not Jerry Fucking Seinfeld! Shut the fuck up! Mitch clutches his balls, hurt and scared...
DAVE: These are called children, or dependents. Never disparage your own children -- everything they do is a miracle from God. When they're bad, it's only because they're tired or going through a phase. When other people's kids are bad, however, it's because of indulgent parenting or innate defects in the
CHILD'S CHARACTER--: A cute little BOY snatches three apple slices.
DAVE (CONT'D): One a piece, please, Dylan.
(TO MITCH): Kid's a natural born criminal. If he sees 18, it'll be from the inside a jail cell.
DAVE: This is called an office, or work. Think about whatever you most want to do here, and then do the exact opposite. You want to go home early? Great: stay all night. Hungry? Cool: don't eat. Think your boss is a total douche? Terrific: invite him to join your fantasy baseball league. A cute ASSOCIATE walks by and Mitch overtly eye-fucks her all the way past. Dave nut-punches him again.
DAVE (CONT'D): You're married now, jackass! You can't look at other women, you can't talk to other women, you can't even be interesting around other women! Do everything in your power to de-sexualize yourself -- wear a fannypack, drive a Passat, affix electronic devices to your belt -- whatever it takes. If you're forced to interact with a woman, quickly find a way to mention that you're married. It doesn't even have to make sense. Just be like "Nice weather today, I'm totally fucking married."
MITCH: Wait, so I can't sleep with my wife and I can't sleep with other women? What is that?
DAVE: It's called marriage. Dave turns into his office, nodding at his mean secretary.
DAVE (CONT'D): Good morning, Gladys. She scowls at him, confused, who's this guy? Then Mitch passes and wiggles his tongue at her, simulating cunnilingus. The old lady GASPS, appalled...
DAVE: Do you have any other questions?
MITCH: Yeah -- when's your free time?
DAVE: (COCK-PUNCHING him again) Have you been listening to one word I've said?! There is no fucking free time! You don't have a life anymore! You don't have a personality, or an identity, or a point of view! You are a dad!
DAVE (CONT'D): Your job is to allocate resources, to shuttle children from A to B, to deliver food at appropriate intervals, to clean up, to break down, to construct, to repair, to finance, to sooth, to make everyone else happy, okay? And when your day is done, you know what you get?
MITCH: Dry handjob?
DAVE: Nothing! You're not single anymore! No one gives you a cupcake every time you hold the door or speak in complete sentences, it's expected of you now, so grow up!
MITCH: Okay, can I just say something without you punching my cock? (Dave inhales, go) I think you might be taking some of this adult shit a little seriously--
MITCH: HELL-lo legs.
SABRINA: Yes...um...sort of big news.
MITCH: (solicitous, creepy) Please, come in! Coffee? Scotch?
SABRINA: (entering, tentative) No... thanks? Anyway, Kinkabe and Amalgamated have agreed to go into binding mediation in two days.
DAVE: Two days? Are you kidding me?! Sabrina glances at Dave, confused, no idea who he is.
SABRINA: N-No? Anyway, I'll have my briefs on your desk by tonight.
MITCH: (stretching leg on desk) And I'll have my briefs on your chin by tomorrow morning--
DAVE: And that is Level 4 Sexual Harassment! Awesome! Thanks, Sabrina, that will be all.
MITCH: Oh shit, this is Sabrina?! Sabrina looks at Dave, even more confused.
SABRINA: Have. . .Have we met?
DAVE: (shaking Sabrina's hand) Oh. I'm sorry, no. I'm Mitch, Dave's completely idiotic friend.
(SMILING SLIGHTLY): Sabrina McArdle. Nice to meet you. Mitch notices their chemistry and immediately blurts out:
MITCH: You guys should go out!
DAVE: What?
MITCH: Yeah! You're single now, Mitch, remember? And Sabrina is stone fucking hot! Look at that body! Sabrina: swimmer in college?
SABRINA: Dave--?
MITCH: You two should go out, have a nice steak dinner, go dancing at some weird Korean nightclub and then fuck on the roof, you know what I mean? How's 8pm tomorrow night, Richter's Steakhouse? Sabrina and Dave stammer, sharing a terrorized look.
SABRINA: Um, good, I guess...?
MITCH: Great! I know for a fact that Mitch is free, so he'll see you there! And honey: wear something tight, you know what I mean? Make it fun.
SABRINA: Yeah...I'm gonna go now...? Sabrina hurries out, appalled. Dave clutches his forehead:
DAVE: Oh my god I'm so fucking fired.
MITCH: No dude: you're so fucking laid!
DAVE: You can't talk to women like that at work! Or anywhere, really!
MITCH: I'm sorry, I just got you a date with the number one girl on your Cancer List and this is the thanks I get?
DAVE: I'm not going on the date, Mitch.
MITCH: Yes you are.
DAVE: No. I'm not.
MITCH: Yes you are, because if you don't, I will feed'your children non- organic snacks and then introduce them to my extensive girl-on-horse pornography collection. How do you think Jamie will react to that? Dave just looks at Mitch, horrified.
DAVE: Why...Why are you doing this to me?
MITCH: Because I've seen your life and if you don't loosen up soon you are literally going to die. So go out with this chick. Have fun. Bust a nut. Remember why life is beautiful again, okay? Please? This actually gets to Dave a bit. He frowns, fine...
MITCH (CONT'D): Also, see if she likes to fuck on Tuesday nights, because you owe me a regular.
VOICE: Dave? Mitch turns to see his father, MITCH, SR. passing, smiling.
MITCH: Oh! Hey... Mister ...Planko? What are you doing here?
MITCH: Yeah, maybe if you're from Kansas.
MITCH: (quick, sharp) What's that supposed to mean?
MITCH: I mean, you still have a really fucking cool son, right?!
MITCH: They're fucking fine-- what the fuck does that mean, "Mitch is definitely cool?!"
(TAKEN ABACK): Nothing. No, it's my fault... I spoiled him rotten after his mother passed away, but... He trails off, clearly not wanting to talk about this.
MITCH: But what, dude?! Spit it out!
MITCH: Your son is not a fuck up, M-Mr. Planko! He's just a late bloomer! His dad looks utterly confused as Mitch gets into the car.
MITCH: I'm sorry, I'm just very close to Mitch and when people say mean things about him I hurt too-- He SLAMS the door shut and jerks out of the parking spot, tears pouring down his face. His dad watches on, bewildered.
MITCH: Fuck! Fuck... And then Survivor's "Eye of the Tiger" comes on the radio. Mitch's expression slowly turns to steely determination...
BLACK STILLNESS: As "Eye of the Tiger" continues playing, we hear a baby SCREAM BLOODY MURDER. Then we hear a second baby join in. Finally, we hear the worst two words a parent can ever hear:
MITCH: I need the book CORPORATE LAW FOR DUMMIES, every season of Law & Order on DVD and Blu-Ray, and the biggest fucking coffee you can carry on my desk in 15 minutes or else you're fired. Gladys writes this down on a pad of paper, a bit turned on...
MITCH (CONT'D): Also get yourself a new haircut and a pair of six inch stripper shoes. It's time to take this shit to the next level.
MITCH: Fuck me she's cute...
JAMIE: Uh oh, here comes the second battement glisse... Jamie tenses up. Mitch does too... As Cara starts her spin, Nicolette Peters goes to push her over -- and Cara calmly grabs her arm, FLIPS her over her shoulder, and drops her flat on her back with a loud WHAM! As Nicolette starts CRYING, Cara calmly continues dancing like nothing happened. The other girls on stage look pleased. Mitch CLAPS and WHISTLES:
JAMIE: Honey--?.
JAMIE: Well, looks like you won't be doing ballet at the rec center anymore.
CARA: That's okay. I didn't really like it anyway.
MITCH: Where'd you learn to ninja-flip a girl like that?
CARA: The internet.
MITCH: Good girl. So what'd we learn from this?
CARA: Always solve my problems with violence.
MITCH: That's right, baby. Bones. They bump fists. Jamie is stunned.
JAMIE: What?! No, angel, that's exactly the wrong lesson. You should never use violence, except to defend yourself, okay? Mitch subtly shakes his head at Cara, don't listen to her.
MITCH: Violence is cool.
JAMIE: Dave!
MITCH: I'm kidding!
(TO CARA): I'm not kidding. Cara GIGGLES in the backseat. Jamie can't help but laugh too. Soon they're all LAUGHING. It's a nice moment.
CARA: I love you, Daddy...
(SURPRISED): Oh. I-I love you too, angel.
MITCH (CONT'D): Lockwood.
MITCH: Don't move. I'll be right over.
DAVE: How do I look?!
MITCH: Like a fucking tool. Step aside-- Mitch throws open the closet and yanks out a pair of jeans.
MITCH (CONT'D): These are called jeans. They've been very popular with our nation's young people for over 60 years. Put them on immediately.
DAVE: Jeans? To a restaurant? Mitch punches Dave in the nuts; he doubles over.
MITCH: Shut up and do what I say. We only have 3 hours to make you cool...
MITCH: This is called gel, or product. Use too little and you look like a pedophile Cub Scout leader, use too much and you look Persian. Neither is a winning hand. Dave very nervously applies gel to his hair...
MITCH: Okay, normally I would never do this for another man, but since we're in a rush, and technically this is my testicle bag, I'm making a rare exception. Always man-scape before a first date. It shows a lady that you're clean, considerate, and American.
MITCH: Don't speak, it jiggles your sack.
DAVE: I can't believe you just charged a Ferrari to my Discover Card.
MITCH: You need to learn to be spontaneous, Dave. Chicks like spontaneous. (to WOMEN walking by) Hey ladies! Show us your tits! They flip him off. Mitch laughs. Dave is still floored:
DAVE: What are we gonna tell Jamie...?
MITCH: Do me a favor, Dave. Relax your butt hole.
DAVE: What?
MITCH: Your sphincter. Just... release it. Dave's entire body visibly relaxes a bit.
MITCH (CONT'D): You didn't even know it was puckered, right? Now recline your seat a bit...
(DAVE RECLINES): Good. Now take some deep breaths. (Dave does, calming) Now give me your sunglasses. Dave gives him his sunglasses; Mitch chucks them out the window and hands him his cool Ray Ban's.
MITCH (CONT'D): Now, just for like three minutes, don't be a dad, don't be a husband, don't be a lawyer, just be a dude rolling down Sunset strip in a fucking Ferrari with his best friend listening to Seal, okay? Dave looks out the window, getting into it...
MITCH (CONT'D): Feels good, right? After a moment, a TEAR escapes from under Dave's shades.
MITCH (CONT'D): It's okay, just let it out.
DAVE: It's been so long since I felt cool...
MITCH: I know, baby. I know. They cruise for a bit longer, then Mitch pulls into a CAR WASH. Dave looks confused.
DAVE: Why are we washing the car? It's brand new.
MITCH: We're not washing the car, David. We're getting you mentally, physically, and spiritually ready for your date. Come on.
MITCH: Now. I don't have time to cover all the ways in which women have changed since you last dated... Mitch stops at the register to pay. Various CAR WASH EMPLOYEES keep saying hi to Dave, weirding him out.
MITCH: The bottom line is: the internet has revolutionized everything.
DAVE: You mean like J-date?
MITCH: Fuck J-date. No. The internet has changed chicks in three major ways: first, access and acceptance of pornography has commoditized women and pressured them into becoming sluttier at far younger ages, which is awesome. Mitch finishes paying and continues through the car wash.
MITCH (CONT'D): Second: text messaging has de- stigmatized the booty call. Call a girl at 3 in the morning for sex and it's creepy. Text her "SUCK WANG MIDNIGHT??" and it's classy. I have no idea why, but again, an awesome development.
MITCH (CONT'D): Third: Facebook and other social networking sites have falsely convinced people -- women included -- that they are funny, interesting, and unique. Get used to listening waaay more than you used to. Chicks are the new dudes, they talk about themselves all the fucking time now. Practice saying things like "you are so different" and "no, really, what Golden Girl would you be?" and "I love Lady Gaga too."
DAVE: What's a Lady Gaga?
MITCH: I don't know, it's either a pop singer or an energy drink. They arrive at the CAR WASH WAITING AREA. People sit around, waiting for their cars, many of them young, female, and cute.
MITCH (CONT'D): Okay, let's talk to some honeys, get your flow going again.
DAVE: So wait, why are we at a car wash?
MITCH: The girls are alone, bored, and old enough to drive -- it's a goldmine. I run game here four to seven times a week. Now go on, bust a move.
DAVE: Come on, I talk to women all the time, I don't need to practice.
MITCH: Really.
DAVE: Yes. And no offense, as a married man, I probably know how to talk to women better than you do.
MITCH: Reall v!
DAVE: Yes! It's not that hard. They just want to be respected and listened to like everybody else.
MITCH: Okay Daddy Day Care show me how it's done then! Shit! Dave sighs and crosses to a CUTE BLONDE texting nearby. As he draws closer, however, he starts to tense up...soon he's sweating... it's been a long time ...by the time he finally reaches the blonde, his voice is ridiculously shrill:
DAVE: Hello there what's your name?! She doesn't even look up from her BlackBerry. Dave's confidence instantly crumbles...
DAVE (CONT'D): I-I'm sorry, I'm not trying to hit on you. I'm just...I mean, I'm married, so that's not even a thing. W-W-Where are you from--? Mitch appears and yanks him away. Dave looks traumatized:
DAVE (CONT'D): Was she reaching for her rape whistle?
MITCH: Shake it off. Being single is like the Tour De France: it's all about quick recovery time. Now go on, get your groove back, you're meeting Sabrina in a half hour.
QUICK CUTS:: Of Dave trying to chat up various YOUNG WOMEN at the carwash.
DAVE: Your name is Dora? Like the Explorah?! No...? You aren't familiar with that show...?
DAVE: (trying to be sexy) So: what school district do you live in?
DAVE: Yikes, what do your parents think of all those piercings?!
DAVE: .and that's the difference between a stroller and a pram.
YOUNG WOMAN: My car's ready. The YOUNG WOMAN races off towards her newly cleaned car. Dave slumps, shit. Mitch nods, looking at his watch.
MITCH: Forty seconds. Not bad. Your times are improving.
DAVE: I forgot how hard it is to be single...
MITCH: As a general rule, when you're talking to single women, conversation topics to avoid include: your wife, your children, your favorite playgrounds, and The Wiggles... Dave nods, hating himself. Mitch heads for the Ferrari.
MITCH (CONT'D): But this was good. You worked out all your bad game and now you're ready to dominate. Come on.
DAVE: I don't feel good about this.
MITCH: Relax: you're dressed cool, your hair is crushing it, your ballsack is taut and smooth, and you're way better looking than you've ever been. Just remember Uncle Mitch's Golden Rule of Dating.
DAVE: I know, always use an alias.
MITCH: What? No. No, my Golden Rule of Dating is always find the fun. Think of it like this: for the next two hours, you're stuck with this chick. Doesn't matter if she's cool or crazy or if she was born with a vagina on her forehead -- you're stuck, so make the most of it. I dated this chick named Topaz once who may or may not have killed her father. Long story short, she looked like 50 miles of bad road and I wasn't interested, but I used our time together to learn about incest and the failures of the American Appellate Court system. I found it hugely informative, and Topaz got caught up in my enthusiasm and gave me a crying blowjob on the car-ride home, so everybody won. The point is: find the fun for yourself and great things will follow. Dave looks horrified as they roll up to RICHTER'S, a chic steakhouse.
MITCH (CONT'D): Power hug. Mitch hugs a still-speechless Dave...
MITCH (CONT'D): Now go on. Make daddy proud.
SABRINA: Hey!
DAVE: Hey. Hi. Hello. He awkwardly goes to kiss her cheek while she goes for a handshake. It's awkward/cute.
DAVE (CONT'D): Oh -- whoop -- okay. They sit. Dave stares at her, terrified. Then he blurts out:
DAVE (CONT'D): Do you like Googoo Lady?!
SABRINA: What. . .what is that?
DAVE: I-I don't know! I really don't! Sabrina smiles politely and looks around for a waiter. Dave winces, hating himself to the very core of his being...
SABRINA: So. How long have you known Dave?
DAVE: M-My whole life, actually.
SABRINA: Annnd have you ever seen him act like he did yesterday?
DAVE: What, like a total douchebag? She LAUGHS. Dave can't believe it. He loosens up a bit.
DAVE (CONT'D): That's not fair. Dave...Dave isn't himself right now. I hope he didn't say anything to offend you...
SABRINA: No. I mean, he totally did, but it's fine. I have brothers. Dave pours both of them a glass of wine, finding his rhythm.
DAVE: So. You like working with Dave?
SABRINA: I love it. He's the best.
DAVE: Isn't he just?
SABRINA: I.. .eh, nevermind.
DAVE: No, go on.
SABRINA: I actually used to sort of have a crush on him, if you must know...
(LAUGHING): You did? That's so... ironic!
SABRINA: I mean, he's married, so obviously...
DAVE: Right. Obviously. Well, I'm just like Dave, only way more handsome. She laughs. Dave smiles back, his confidence growing, as we
DAVE: Well, I had a great time...
SABRINA: Oh -- are we done? It's only 2.
DAVE: Right! No! What are we, lame married people? Let's go to a rave...or something? Do people... still do that? Raving?
SABRINA: My friend is spinning afterhours at Foxtail, if you want...?
(CONFUSED): Spinning? Is that with the bikes? Sabrina laughs and takes his arm.
SABRINA: You're so funny! Come on!
DAVE: Now that was a first date...
SABRINA: For a guy with a poker table in his living room, Kiefer Sutherland is surprisingly bad at poker.
DAVE: I know. I'm not even sure he understood the rules... She laughs. Then they stop in front of her apartment. Beat.
SABRINA: It's so weird, I feel like I've known you for longer than just one night...
DAVE: Yeah. Me too... There's a lull for a kiss. Dave hesitates...so Sabrina moves in and kisses him. It's sweet but passionate... When it's over, Dave can barely speak:
DAVE (CONT'D): Can...Can, um, can I call you sometime? Do people still say that?
SABRINA: Yes -- and you'd better.
DAVE: Okay. Well. Good night, Sabrina.
SABRINA: Good night, Mitch.
DAVE: Fuck that. He rolls over and goes back to sleep, a smile on his face...
DAVE: Well, well, look who's all growns up.
MITCH: Really? Open-toed sandals at work?
DAVE: Are...Are you kidding me?
MITCH: Look, I can't hang right now, okay? I've got the mediation in like ten minutes. Dave stands right back up, surprised and impressed.
DAVE: Wow. Okay. Well, I just wanted t tell you that if you can get a protracted buyout for anything over 700 million dollars, take it, okay?
MITCH: 700 million, you got it.
DAVE: (heading for the door) Also, I wanted to thank you for setting me up with Sabrina. She's amazing. I can't wait to see her
MITCH: What?! Dave: No. You can't, you have to wait at least a week! Dave reaches for his cellphone as he heads out the door.
DAVE: Which reminds me, I wanted to call to see if she got the flowers...
MITCH: You sent her flowers after one date?! Are you retarded?! Do not get me into a relationship, dude! Too late. Dave is already gone. Mitch scowls. Then:
MITCH (CONT'D): You can come out now, Gladys... A second later, GLADYS, in a form-fitting suit and a sexy new bob, crawls out from under his desk. Mitch zips up his pants.
MITCH (CONT'D): Look, honey, I don't think this is
WORKING OUT--: Gladys YANKS him by the tie and gets in his face, wild-eyed:
GLADYS: I haven't had sex in 34 years! This isn't over tit I su e' it's over.
MITCH: F-Fine, but can you please stop following me to the bathroom and calling my house late at night and sending me all those filthy emails? It's, you know, deeply disturbing.
GLADYS: You need to realize something, boy: (whispering in his ear) I fucking own you now. The old lady aggressively makes out with Mitch. Her tongue roams from his mouth and madly licks his face, neck, and forehead. Eventually they separate. Mitch looks stunned.
GLADYS (CONT'D): I left you a little souvenir in your pocket... She winks and exits. Mitch tentatively reaches into his pocket and pulls out a giant pair of TAN GRANNY PANTIES.
MITCH: I've created a monster...
ERIN WALSH: Thank you all for coming. My name is Erin Walsh and I will be mediating your claim today... Mitch makes the "I'm gonna slit your fucking throat" gesture to Ken Kinkabe, who recoils, what the...:
MITCH: 14! 14 sandwiches and 9 Diet Slice's! Pay up, cocksucker! An EXEC gives him a 5 dollar bill. Mitch waves it in the air and HUMS the Olympic theme song. Flemming just glares at him like, you're so fired. Then the mediator enters.
ERIN WALSH: Kinkabe agrees in principle to the terms of the sale, and valuates your company at 725 million dollars. This is their last and final offer. I'll be outside. She exits. CEO Ted Norton looks at Flemming, intense.
MITCH: Fuck that, dude, you can do better.
MITCH: Look, this is just like when you're trying to fuck a Jewish girl and she keeps saying "no, no, I don't want to, I'm really drunk and you're not circumcised" but then she keeps making out with you and not getting out of your Fiero so you know she really does want it, she just needs to be nudged a bit more so she can rationalize it to herself and to her God, know what I mean? This is just like that. Everyone in the room is speechless. Mitch opens another soda.
MITCH (CONT'D): Jesus I do not feel good.
MITCH: If this was really their final offer, they'd leave. Instead, they're sticking around, which means they have more money to spend. Ted looks at his execs. It's not a terrible point...
MITCH: Fuck it, homey, go for 100.
MITCH: Enh, can't hurt to ask. You wouldn't believe the nasty shit I get girls to do just by asking. Honestly, it's revolting.
MITCH (CONT'D): Seriously, does anyone have a Pepto? Because I'm gonna throw. Finally, Ted opens the door and says to the mediator:
MITCH: Nice, bro. Way to show some sack.
MITCH: Hey, me too. Bones. He extends his fist. Ted ignores him and gathers his things.
ERIN WALSH: Sir, Mr. Kinkabe has agreed to the 825 million. The deal is closed.
MITCH: Fuck it. Helping ridiculously rich people become even more ridiculously rich is why I go to work every day.
MITCH: I am?! Fuck, I've never really been good at anything before... Mitch considers this a second, then laughs, proud.
MITCH (CONT'D): Gimme me a hug you tiny capitalist! Mitch hugs Ted and lifts him off the ground, spinning him.
MITCH (CONT'D): I love you so much...
(AMAZED): These are your grandfather's seats?
SABRINA: Yeah, my family's been coming to Dodger games since they moved here from Brooklyn in '58. Dave looks at her, his amazement only growing...
DAVE: Really? Who's your favorite Dodger?
SABRINA: Fernando, obviously.
SABRINA (CONT'D): No way!
DAVE: It's too soon to say I love you, right? That's against the rules? she laughs and kisses him.
SABRINA: You're cute. Smiling, Dave looks out at the perfect ball field, his arm around Sabrina-he looks profoundly... existentially.. .happy. And then his iPhone RINGS. He answers it:
DAVE: Mitch Planko who the fuck is this.
DAVE: Oh my God, hi! Dave steps away to take the call. Carla does another whippet.
DAVE (CONT'D): What's.. .going on?
DAVE: And... and how long is it going to be there?
DAVE: And after that?
DAVE: Right. Okay, well thanks, Carla. (clicking over to other line) Hello?
MITCH: You hear about the fountain?
DAVE: Yeah... We should probably switch back, huh? Mitch high-fives a co-worker.
MITCH: Sure. Right. I mean... the funny thing is...I was just starting to enjoy your life a little bit...
DAVE: Yeah, and I was just starting to enjoy yours, too...
MITCH: Really?
DAVE: Really.
MITCH: So.. .maybe we should keep going--?
DAVE: I'm so glad you said that.
MITCH: I'm so glad I said that too! Your life rocks!
MITCH (CONT'D): I just closed the Amalgamated deal for 825 million dollars and for the first time ever, people actually respect me! It's so weird! Word is they're going to make me partner tonight! I love your life, dude!
DAVE: And I love yours! All the free time and the fun activities and I'm really growing as an actor and I think Sabrina might actually have intercourse with me tonight!
MITCH: Dude, you sent her flowers -- she's gonna fuck you like a crack whore on rent day.
DAVE: So, wait, what are we talking about here? Staying like this... forever:
MITCH: No! Course not.
DAVE: Right! That's crazy... Beat.
MITCH: Is it though...? Mitch bumps fists with smiling co-workers... Dave watches Sabrina CHEER after a base hit...
DAVE: It's so strange, when the change-up happened, we were so focussed on switching back into our bodies that we didn't even consider that this might be exactly what we both needed...
MITCH: Yeah, we're fucking morons.
DAVE: All right, well, see ya, Dave...
MITCH: Take it easy, Mitch...
CARA: Look, Daddy, it's you and me! Mitch forces a tight smile, right...
JAMIE: I'm so proud of you, baby. You worked so hard for this... Mitch winces, knowing just how wrong she is. All around him, the partners stand, APPLAUDING. Mitch stands, a bit dizzy.
MITCH: I-I'm sorry...I just... He hurries off towards the bathroom. Everyone looks confused.
SABRINA: Oh my god, I'm soaking-- (taking in barren apartment) Wait, are you a single guy? Dave laughs and throws her a towel from the bathroom. She starts drying her hair.
SABRINA (CONT'D): I need a beer and some dry clothes. When Dave passes her, though, she stops him, and starts kissing him...
SABRINA (CONT'D): Or maybe...mmm...maybe just a beer.
MITCH: What am I doing...? This isn't my life...
VOICE: Good evening, Mr. Lockwood... He spins to see Gladys in the doorway, vamping, sexy...
MITCH: Oh no. Gladys, not now--
GLADYS: (approaching, coy) I'm not wearing any bloomers...
MITCH: I thought we talked about not using
THAT WORD--: WHAM! She throws him against the bathroom wall and starts aggressively undressing him.
GLADYS: What's bothering you, Mr. Lockwood?
MITCH: Look, Gladys, I love bathroom sex as much as the next guy, but-- She SPITS in his face, crazy-eyed.
MITCH: (wiping face, a bit scared) O-Okay? Well, I guess what's bothering me is...I didn't earn any of this, you know? Gladys rips open his shirt and starts licking his chest downward until she disappears OUT OF FRAME.
MITCH (CONT'D): And I know what you're thinking: Mitch, not earning things never used to bother you, why does it bother you now? And the answer is: maybe I'm growing up. We hear the sound of his pants UNZIPPING...
MITCH (CONT'D): I mean, sure, I closed the deal today, and that felt good, but I didn't put in all the years of hard work that got Dave to this point, you know? Plus, those aren't my adorable kids, that's not my beautiful wife, you're not even my freaky deaky old lady secretary. I want to earn this stuff-- Just then FLEMMING STEEL III BLOWS IN -- and stops cold:
MITCH: Uh oh.
MITCH: Sir, it's not my fault--!
JAMIE: I thought you might be having an affair... but not with Gladys:
GLADYS: Age-ist.
MITCH: Jamie, you gotta believe me, this woman is a predator--!
JAMIE: You know what? No. I can't do this anymore. I want you out of the house by the time the kids wake up.
MITCH: Jamie--! Too late. She runs off, choking back tears...
MITCH: FUCK! Fuck... He stands in the rain, overcome with self-loathing...
DAVE: You find anything that fits? Then Sabrina appears in the doorway, wearing one of his old tee shirts-and panties.. .and nothing else... she's unreal...
SABRINA: This is all I could find...
(WIDE-EYED): Holy shit. As she bends over to dim the lamp, her tee shirt rides up -- exposing her perfectly tan, arched back...
DAVE (CONT'D): (hyperventilating, to himself) Please don't come, please don't
COME--: And then he stops short. On Sabrina's lower back is a cute tramp stamp tattoo of a BUTTERFLY.
DAVE (CONT'D): Oh my God: a Many-Spotted Skipperlinq... And everything comes rushing back. His family. His wife. His entire life. He looks overcome with emotion... Sabrina notices as she slides onto the couch with him.
SABRINA: Is everything okay, baby...?
DAVE: Yeah, no, I just... Dave rubs his temples, overwhelmed...
DAVE (CONT'D): I can't do this.
SABRINA: Why not--? Just then the door flies open and
JAMIE: Dave is cheating on me! Dave quickly covers his hard-on with a pillow.
DAVE: No I'm not! I'm so not!
JAMIE: How could you lie to me, Mitch?! We've known each other for--! Then Jamie sees scantily-clad Sabrina and stops.
JAMIE (CONT'D): Oh.
(COVERING HERSELF): Who is this chick?!
DAVE: (stammering, pointing) Umm...she's...uh...this just got very complicated...
JAMIE: I'm sorry -- I'm Jamie, the wife of one of Mitch's friends.
SABRINA: Wait, Jamie Lockwood? Dave's wife?
JAMIE: You know the prick?!
SABRINA: Yeah, we work together. He cheated on you?
JAMIE: Yes, with his secretary, Gladys!
DAVE: What?!
SABRINA: Of all the women in the office, he picked her?! Slightly awkward beat.
DAVE: Look, Jamie, I didn't know about Gladys, I swear. But I'm sure she means absolutely nothing to Dave--!
JAMIE: No! No more excuses! The next time you see my asshole husband tell him that I will never. Ever. Take him back, you got that?! Dave nods quickly, terrified.
JAMIE (CONT'D): Sabrina! It was nice to meet you!
CARA: Daddy? Mitch turns to see Cara, small and fragile in the doorway.
CARA (CONT'D): What are you doing?
MITCH: Oh, angel, it's nothing. I'm just going away for a little while...
CARA: Why?
MITCH: It's... confusing grown-up stuff--
CARA: Try me.
MITCH: O-Okay? Well. I'm leaving because I'm a fuck up. Do you know what a fuck up is?
(NODDING): Like Uncle Mitch.
MITCH: Right. Right. Well, I thought this time was different, you know? I thought I actually did something right for once. But no, I'm still the same old fuck up I've always been. Only this time I really fucking fucked up, because I fucked up my life and my best friend's life... Mitch zips up his bag, full of regret -- and finds Cara hugging his leg.
CARA: I don't think you're a fuck up. He crouches down and looks at her, getting choked up...
MITCH: Thanks, sweetie, but your brain is the size of a radish. I am a fuck up. I always have been, and I always will be. Guys like me, we know how to have fun, but we don't know how to do the important stuff, you know...? Be good, okay, kiddo? She nods, confused. He kisses her head and exits, emotional.
THE 101 FREEWAY: where the stop-and-go traffic moves only slightly faster. Jamie continues quietly CRYING to herself... Then we see
JAMIE: Mitch?
JAMIE: What is the matter with you?!
DAVE: Look, I know I haven't been a very good husband or father recently...
JAMIE: What are you talking about--?
DAVE: But I'm done looking over the fence for something better. I've seen what's on the other side, and it's great. . .and young... and supple... but it's not you. And the truth is there will always be another fence with shinier toys on the other side, but the only way to be happy is to say fuck the fence and just appreciate what you have, you know? Find the fun with what you got...
JAMIE: O-Okay?
DAVE: I'm so sorry I stopped appreciating you, pumpkin. I love you. And I love our weird little kids. And I can't believe I ever thought that wasn't enough.
JAMIE: Why...are you calling me pumpkin? And then he kisses her. She resists--
JAMIE (CONT'D): Mitch--?. But he holds her firm. And soon she's kissing him back, confused and overwhelmed and crying... It's emotional and intense for him, too. They finally separate, but remain inches apart, breathing hard.
JAMIE (CONT'D): Dave? Dave nods. Jamie squints, trying to understand.
JAMIE (CONT'D): But...how? Dave shakes his head, I don't know...
JAMIE (CONT'D): So...then ...Mitch was the one... with Gladys? Dave nods again. Jamie looks relieved... Then she stops.
JAMIE (CONT'D): Wait, so who was that hot young thing back in the apartment?
DAVE: Nothing happened, I swear.
JAMIE: Okay. But-we're going to need to talk about this.
DAVE: Yes. Totally.
JAMIE: Like, a lot. Like, a-therapy-lot.
DAVE: Absolutely: therapy, trust falls, The Landmark Forum, Eat Pray Love, I'll do whatever the fuck you want, Jamie, I just want you back... She smiles and kisses him again. And then again.
JAMIE: I kind of like kissing Mitch.
DAVE: Yeah, I noticed. I'm not sure how I feel about this.
JAMIE: (giggling, kissing him again) So ...mmm...so what do we do now?
DAVE: Oh shit! We gotta go!
DAVE: Mitch! Get in!
MITCH: Dave?
DAVE: Get in!
MITCH: (squinting inside car) Is that Jamie?
JAMIE: Get in the fucking car, dipshit! Mitch, terrified, sprints to the car and hops in.
MITCH: So, um, are you guys driving me to the desert to kill me?
DAVE: No. Jamie knows about the change- up. We're all good.
JAMIE: It suddenly makes a lot more sense why you spent so much time rubbing my breastfeeding cream onto my boobs every night.
DAVE: Really, dude?
MITCH: I was just...trying to be helpful.
JAMIE: Oh, and what about that time you--?
DAVE: You know what? I don't want to know! Let's just hope we get to the warehouse before they ship off our fountain... Off Dave's concerned look we
DAVE (CONT'D): There! Four WORKMEN pack the FOUNTAIN OF METIS into a large wooden crate for transport. Jamie, Mitch and Dave run over to them.
MITCH: Wait! Stop! The workmen stop packing the fountain, confused.
DAVE: We...We need that fountain.
WORKMAN #1: You.. .need this fountain?
MITCH: Yes. We have to pee in it.
DAVE: It's a magic fountain. The workmen just look at them, deadpan. Then Dave reaches into his wallet and starts pulling out CASH--
DAVE: Come on, open the floodgates!
MITCH: I can't pee with them watching! PAN OVER to the workmen, standing nearby, looking at Mitch and Dave like they're total freaks.
DAVE: Well I can't keep going forever! Mitch tilts his head back and quietly sings to himself:
MITCH: The sun is shining all the time, Looks like another perfect day, I love L.A. We love it! I love L.A...
DAVE: Are you singing Randy Newman--? Then we hear a second stream of PEE hit the fountain.
MITCH: Oh thank god.
DAVE: Okay, quick, we have to hug!
MITCH: (glancing back at workmen) Do we, though?
DAVE: Yes, we have to do everything exactly the same! Come on! As they scootch together and put their arms around each other, Mitch calls over to the workmen:
MITCH: Just so you know, this isn't gay! Our penises aren't even touching--!
DAVE: Come on: "I wish I had my old life back" on three! One, two:
MITCH DAVE: I wish I had my old life I wish I had my old life back! back!
DAVE: You think it worked?
MITCH: How the fuck should I know? (waving to workmen) Thank you! Have a pleasant evening!
DAVE (CONT'D): Oh thank God. Thank God. Pumpkin, it worked! I'm back!
JAMIE: (groggy, half-asleep) Great, go feed the fucking babies. She rolls over and goes back to sleep. He grins and runs out.
DAVE: You just vomited on my hand but I love yooooou...
SABRINA: Last night was weird.
MITCH: Wasn't it?
SABRINA: So... are you ever going to have sex with me?
(SLOWLY SMILING): Yes. Yes I am.
DAVE: The twins are down for their nap, Cara is watching The Backyardigans... Jamie raises her eyebrow, oh?
JAMIE: It's Tuesday...
DAVE: I know.
JAMIE: It's Tuesday morning.
DAVE: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, mornings, late night, I'm like Denny's, baby, I'm open 24-7. She laughs, and he scoops her up and heads upstairs...
MITCH: I still can't get used to the whole underwear thing. It's such a
SUPERFLUOUS LAYER--: Just then CARA runs up and hugs her Dad.
CARA: Hi Daddy!
DAVE: Sugar-bug!
MITCH: How's my favorite ballerina?!
CARA: I'm not a ballerina anymore, bitch. She races off. Mitch painfully pulls himself to his feet.
MITCH: Jesus fucking Christ... Dave sees SABRINA, looking angelic in a sundress, chatting with a circle of GUESTS on the patio.
DAVE: So. How's it going with Sabrina?
MITCH: Great. We just celebrated our two week anniversary.
DAVE: Wow. Good for you. Mitch nods, proud, I know. Swigs his beer.
MITCH: You think she's fucking Fernando Valenzuela? We see that the man she's talking to is, in fact, Dodger great FERNANDO VALENZUELA, in a pimped-out white suit.
DAVE: Maybe.
MITCH: I'm oddly okay with it.
DAVE: I can't believe they're family friends.
MITCH: I know. She really is perfect-- Just then TATIANA and KIEFER SUTHERLAND approach, wheeling her newborn DAUGHTER in a pram.
KIEFER SUTHERLAND: I gotta go feed her baby, but congrats on your new gig, bro.
MITCH: Thanks, Kiefer. See you guys. Mitch kisses Tatiana on the cheek and they head off.
MITCH (CONT'D): It's creepy that Kiefer Sutherland is like way into other people's babies, right?
DAVE: Oh yeah. Dave flips the burgers.
MITCH: Thanks again for hooking me up with the job at Amalgamated, man.
DAVE: Hey, the CEO owed me a favor...
MITCH: I think I'm really going to crush it in corporate America.
DAVE: I think so too. Just then, MITCH'S DAD approaches.
MITCH: I love you too, Dad. They break apart. Mitch, Sr. heads off. Then he stops. Turns.
DAVE: Is it weird that I miss your penis?
MITCH: Not really.
