CORIOLANUS: Written by William Shakespeare Screenplay by John Logan
CASSIUS: Before we proceed any further, hear me speak -- You are all resolved rather to die than to famish? The others agree. They are not wild-eyed radicals. They are normal people, from all walks of life. You and me.
CASSIUS: First, you know Caius Martius is chief enemy to the people. A voice from the back of the room:
TAMORA: Let us kill him. The others turn. Tamora, just entering, pulls off her coat, joins the others:
TAMORA: And we'll have corn at our own price. Is it a verdict? Some are unsure. She is too extreme for some.
(PRESSING SLIGHTLY): We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good The leanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, our sufferance, is a gain to them. Let us revenge this with our sticks ere we become rakes! I speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge. A woman, a YOUNG MOTHER, protests:
YOUNG MOTHER: Will you proceed especially against Caius Martius?
CASSIUS: Against him first. A COLLEGE PROFESSOR, speaks up:
COLLEGE PROFESSOR: Consider you what services he has done for his country?
(SNAPS): Very well, and could be content to give
TAMORA (CONT'D): him good report for it -- but that he pays himself with being proud.
COLLEGE PROFESSOR: Nay, but speak not maliciously. She has over-played her hand. Pretends to back down:
TAMORA: I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did it to that end... (a snarky smile) He did it to please his mother. Some laugh at her gossip. Then the TV image switches to a BREAKING NEWS update: From the Roman Senate. An august press room. A Senator is moving to a podium to make a statement. He is Senator MENENIUS is a seasoned and wily politician. Silver hair, perfectly tailored suit. He is known as a folksy "man of the people." It is a role he plays to perfection.
CASSIUS: Soft, who comes here?
COLLEGE PROFESSOR: Worthy Senator Menenius, one that hath always loved the people.
TAMORA: He's one honest enough; would all the rest were so.
(ON TV): Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbors, Will you undo yourselves?
(SMILES BENEVOLENTLY): I tell you, friends, most charitable care Have the patricians of you, For your wants, Your suffering in this dearth, you may as
WELL: Strike at the heavens with your staves as
LIFT THEM: Against the Roman state--
TAMORA: (speaking to the TV) Suffer us to famish, and their storehouses crammed with grain-- The others shush her.
(ON TV): Alack, you are transported by calamity Thither where more attends you; and you
SLANDER: The helms of the state, who care for you like fathers, When you curse them as enemies-- Cassius mutes the TV. We see Senator Menenius continuing with his speech; his attempt to calm the dangerous situation.
CASSIUS: Care for us? They never cared for us yet!
TAMORA: If the wars eat us not up, they will: and that's all the love they bear us. The others are growing increasingly restive -- shifting --
CASSIUS: Why stay we prating here?
TAMORA: No more talking on it! To the Capitol! Come! Come!
MARTIUS: What's the matter, you dissentious rogues, That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion, Make yourselves scabs?
(SARCASTIC): We have ever your good word.
(SNAPS): He that will give good words to thee will
FLATTER: Beneath abhorring. The crowd is hushed. Taking in his every word.
MARTIUS: What would you have, you curs? He that trusts to you, Where he should find you lions, finds you
HARES;: Where foxes, geese. He walks along the front of the crowd. Some are frightened by the great Martius. Some are even awed. Others glare at him with loathing.
MARTIUS: Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate... Hang ye! Trust ye? With every minute you do change your mind, And call him noble that was now your hate, Him vile that was your garland. He continues along the crowd, his cold eyes taking in face
MARTIUS: What's the matter, That in these several places of the city You cry against the noble Senate, who, Under the gods, keep you in awe, which
ELSE: Would feed on one another? He stops and glares at the mob with seething anger. He climbs back onto his horse. Stares down at them.
MARTIUS: Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS! A tense beat. The riot police shift nervously. The crowd is unsure. The TV news crew films everything.
MENENIUS: These are almost thoroughly persuaded; For though abundantly they lack discretion, Yet are they passing cowardly.
MARTIUS: They are dissolved. Hang 'em. Senator Menenius watches the crowd. Disturbed.
MENENIUS: I would they were abed.
MARTIUS: I would they were in Tiber. They move off.
(ON TV): Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS! Tullus Aufidius is leaning in. Watching so closely. From his POV: the pixilated close-up of Martius' face on the screen. He runs his knife blade back and forth. Turns it in the light; the reflection of Martius' face distorting as he rotates the blade.
COMINIUS: The news is the Volsces are in arms. An aide presses a remote. Grainy video images play on a monitor: Volscian soldiers, jeeps, tanks. One section shows a quick image of the rebel leader, a striking man called Tullus Aufidius, riding past in a jeep.
COMINIUS: They have a leader, Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to it.
MARTIUS: I sin in envying his nobility, And were I any thing but what I am, I would wish me only he.
SENATOR: You have fought together?
MARTIUS: He is a lion That I am proud to hunt. Martius takes the remote control. Stops the video. Rewinds to the unclear image of Aufidius.
MARTIUS: Titus Lartius, thou Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
TITUS: Lead you on. Martius rewinds and plays the image of Aufidius again, rewinds and plays it again, almost obsessively. We push in on the video image of Aufidius... Aufidius appears to be staring right back at Martius... And this takes us to...
VOLSCE POLITICIAN: So, your opinion is, Aufidius, That they of Rome are entered in our
COUNSELS: And know how we proceed.
(SNAPS): Is it not yours? Tis not four days gone since I heard thence.
VOLSCE OFFICER: We never yet made doubt but Rome was
READY: To answer us.
VOLSCE POLITICIAN: And it is rumored Martius, your old enemy, leads in their preparation. He tosses a glossy magazine on the desk, a picture of Martius on the cover. Aufidius' eyes spark at the image of Martius. He picks up the magazine and carefully tears off the cover picture of Martius, looking at the picture deeply. He continues with a strange and grim fire:
AUFIDIUS: If we and Caius Martius chance to meet, 'Tis sworn between us we shall ever
STRIKE: Till one can do no more. By the elements, If ever again I meet him beard to beard, He's mine or I am his.
VOLUMNIA: I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a more comfortable sort. If my son were my husband, I should more freely rejoice in that absence wherein he won honor than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love. She moves across the room to fetch a cigarette. She moves, always, with stately grace. She walks past a series of photographs. They tell the story of Martius' life: the happy baby; the stern dead father; the rigid young military cadet; the formal wedding; the restrained and unsmiling adult. In the photos we sense a transformation: innocent boy to experienced, severe looking soldier. Volumnia is present in most of the pictures.
VOLUMNIA: When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, I, considering how honor would become such a person, was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame. She lights her cigarette.
VOLUMNIA: To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he returned, his brows bound with oak.
VIRGILIA: But had he died in the business, madam, how then?
VOLUMNIA: Then his good report should have been my son. (she rivets Virgilia) Had I a dozen sons I had rather have eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action. A MAID enters. She speaks to Volumnia (the true mistress of the house) not to Virgilia.
MAID: Madam, Senator Menenius is come to visit you.
VOLUMNIA: Tell Menenius we are fit to bid him welcome. The Maid goes.
VIRGILIA: Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
VOLUMNIA: Indeed, you shall not! She turns off the TV and goes to a bar to mix drinks. She mixes the drinks aggressively, strangely inspired by the discussion of war:
VOLUMNIA: Methinks I hear hither your husband's
DRUM;: Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D): "Come on, you cowards! You were got in fear, Though you were born in Rome." His bloody
BROW: Then wiping, forth he goes.
VIRGILIA: His bloody brow? 0 Jupiter, no blood...
VOLUMNIA: Away, you fool! It more becomes a man Than gold his trophy.
VIRGILIA: Heavens bless my lord from fell Auf idius ...
VOLUMNIA: He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee And tread upon his neck. Senator Menenius enters, he is comfortable in this house and an old ally of Volumnia's.
MENENIUS: My ladies both, good day to you. Volumnia hands him one of the drinks she has been mixing: a perfect martini. She knows how he takes his drink. She is not above flirting with him when it suits her ends.
MENENIUS: How do you both?
(TO VIRGILIA): And how does your little son?
VIRGILIA: I thank you, sir; well, good.
VOLUMNIA: He had rather play with swords and hear a drum than look upon his schoolmaster.
MENENIUS: On my word, the father's son! He and Volumnia laugh. Menenius has sensed Virgilia's tension. Tries to cheer her:
MENENIUS: Come, I must have you play the idle housewife with me this afternoon.
VIRGILIA: No, good sir, I will not out of doors.
MENENIUS: Not out of doors!
VOLUMNIA: She shall, she shall.
VIRGILIA: Indeed, no, by your patience. I'll not over the threshold till my lord return from the wars.
MENENIUS: Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably.
VIRGILIA: I cannot go hither.
(PLAYFULLY): You would be another Penelope; yet they say all the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill Ithaca full of moths.
VIRGILIA: No, good sir, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
MENENIUS: Go with me and I'll tell you excellent news of your husband.
VIRGILIA: 0, good sir, there can be none yet.
MENENIUS: There came news from him last night. Volumnia pounces, moving in:
VOLUMNIA: Indeed?
MENENIUS: Your lord and Titus Lartius are set down before the Volscian city of Corioles. They nothing doubt prevailing and to make it brief wars This is true, on mine honor; and so, I pray, go out with us.
(AGAIN DECLINING): Give me excuse, good sir. I will obey you in everything hereafter.
(SNAPS): Let her alone. As she is now, she will but disease our better mirth. She takes Menenius arm and pulls him out, eager for more news of her son. Virgilia sits for a beat. Then she presses a button on the remote control. The TV goes on again. More news reports of the war. We see images of the Volscian town of Corioles. A "BREAKING NEWS" scroll runs across the bottom of the screen The Battle for Corioles Virgilia watches the war footage, her eyes haunted. Hard cut to--
MARTIUS: They fear us not, but issue forth their city. Sniper bullets slam into a wall near him. He coughs away the smoke and debris. This only makes him more angry:
MARTIUS: They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts, Which makes me sweat with wrath! He that retires, I'll take him for a Volsce, And he shall feel mine edge! Martius leaps up and races on. The others follow in military order. The Roman soldiers move along the street -- it is chaotic -- explosions, smoke and sniper fire -- they duck into doorways and behind abandoned cars -- returning fire as best they can-- Martius leads -- firing stead bursts from his machine gun-- It is slow and bloody going-- Finally the Romans turn a corner and are stopped by a roadblock: a burning bus that fills the entire street-- The Volsces use this roadblock to ambush the Roman soldiers-- We see glimpses of Volscian soldiers darting for position -- firing from rooftops and from inside shops--
FALLING BACK--: Martius refuses to yield -- pushing and shoving his men toward the burning bus -- screaming in fury over the noise:
MARTIUS: You souls of geese, That bear the shapes of men! PLUTO AND
PALE: With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home, Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave
MARTIUS: Look to it. Come on!
FLAMES--: Martius is in his own world now. He doesn't even realize he is alone. He has become a sort of killing machine. A shark moving through the ocean. Ruthless and efficient. We become the warrior. From Martius' POV: We move through disorienting curtains of smoke... Continue down the street... Firing a heavy machine gun... Volscian soldiers contort and die, torn to pieces by the bullets... The heavy machine gun is empty, we drop it and use a sidearm, firing strategic shots... Volscian soldiers dart up -- fire -- and die... We keep moving steadily forward... Shadowy shapes moving nearby, we fire. Killing civilians. The fortunes of war...
TITUS: What is become of Martius?
SOLDIER 1: Slain, sir, doubtless.
SOLDIER 2: He is himself alone, To answer all the city.
TITUS: Thou art lost, Martius... Titus has no time to mourn. He looks over the hopeless situation. Scanning the rooftops, windows and shops. Then he stops He sees something Past the burning bus Through the smoke and flames... He glimpses a ghostly figure...
TITUS: Who's yonder, That does appear as he were flayed? 0 gods! He has the stamp of Martius. It is indeed Martius. A shocking sight. Drenched head-to-toe in blood. His face splattered with gore. His eyes wild. Lost in something like rapture.
MARTIUS: Come I too late?! Come I too late?!
TITUS: Ay, if you come not in the blood of others, But mantled in your own. Martius laughs wildly and embraces Titus, who comes away splattered with blood:
MARTIUS: 0, let me clip ye In arms as sound as when I wooed, in
HEART: As merry as when our nuptial day was done! SUDDENLY -- a deafening explosion -- and RPG EXPLODING from nearby. Then gunfire. Bullets shatter windows. The Volscians are attacking again. The Romans instantly begin diving for cover and taking up
MARTIUS: There is the man of my soul's hate--
AUFIDIUS--: Piercing our Romans.
TITUS: Worthy sir, thou bleeds. Thy exercise hath been too violent For a second course of fight.
MARTIUS: Sir, praise me not. My work hath yet not warmed me. The blood I drop is more medicinal Than dangerous to me. To Aufidius thus I will appear and fight. He turns to some soldiers, imploring them to join him. His bloody visage and intensity are strangely inspiring, his
(TO SOLDIERS): If any such be here- As it were sin to doubt - that love this
PAINTING: Wherein you see me smeared; if any fear Lesser his person than an ill report; If any think brave death outweighs bad life, And that his country's dearer than
HIMSELF;: Let him alone, or so many so minded, Wave thus, to express his disposition,
THEY BOLT--: Zigzagging across the plaza toward the hotel-- Titus and the others provide covering fire--
PLAZA--: They return fire at the hotel as best they can, but the barrage from the Volscians is murderous-- Roman soldiers contort and fall, blood spraying-- Bullets snap and ricochet everywhere around them-- But still they keep up a steady pace, reloading and firing as
THEY GO--: Then Martius is hit--
BLOOD SPRAYS--: But still he keeps on-- The front of the hotel is closer now-- Martius and his soldiers race to the hotel and crash into the
HOTEL LOBBY--: It is the weird and incongruous nature of modern urban warfare: soldiers fighting to the death among hotel couches and tatty corporate artwork-- It is brutal-- Martius and his soldiers cut a bloody swath across the hotel
LOBBY--: Another HUGE EXPLOSION rocks the hotel -- like a seismic blast -- an ugly 1970's chandelier falls--
MARTIUS: I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate thee.
AUFIDIUS: We hate alike. Then Martius does something astounding. He holds out his arms to his sides and drops his weapons. They clatter down. Aufidius does the same. The Roman and Volscian soldiers watch. None daring to interfere. Martius and Aufidius continue to glare at each other -- dropping weapons -- disarming -- Martius climbing up the stairs, Aufidius coming down -- moving closer and closer-- At an instant- They slam together- Fighting without weapons-- Grappling brutally. Tearing at each other. Twining together. Fingers grasping. Teeth snapping. Hands pulling. It is a bloody, terrible, graceless struggle.
THEN--: Another EXPLOSION rocks the hotel-- Part of the roof COLLAPSES-- Concrete SLAMS down-- A cloud of smoke, dust and debris obscures everything- Martius is tossed violently to the ground in the action-- Aufidius is pulled away by several of his men. They drag him to safety. Roman soldiers fire after them. The sound is deafening in the confined garage. But Aufidius and his comrades disappear into a cloud of dust. Gone. Martius glares after him. Wipes blood from his eyes.
COMINIUS: If I should tell thee over this thy day's work, Thou would not believe thy deeds. Martius is barely listening. His attention is on a YOUNG SOLDIER across the room. The Young Soldier is injured, pale and thirsty. Dying.
COMINIUS: But I'll report it Where Senators shall mingle tears with
SMILES;: Where great patricians shall attend and shrug, In the end admire and say: "We thank the
GODS: Our Rome hath such a soldier."
(SHIFTING PAINFULLY): Pray now, no more. My mother, When she does praise me, grieves me. I have done as you have done - that's what I can; Induced as you have been - that's for my country. Martius continues to look at the poor dying soldier.
TITUS: Rome must know The value of her own. It were a
CONCEALMENT: Worse than a theft, To hide your doings.
MARTIUS: I have some wounds upon me, and they
SMART: To hear themselves remembered. The surgeon finishes stitching Martius' arm. Starts to clean another wound.
COMINIUS: Should they not, Well might they fester against
INGRATITUDE: Too modest are you. Impatient, Martius rises, painfully and slowly. He takes his canteen and crosses to the Young Soldier. Gives his canteen to the boy. The Young Soldier drinks. His deep, sad eyes gaze up at Martius. Martius watches as... The Young Soldier dies. The light goes from his eyes. His head hangs awkwardly. His boyish face is leaden. Martius suddenly finds himself exhausted. Morally and physically spent.
(TO COMINIUS): I will go wash; And when my face is fair, you shall
PERCEIVE: Whether I blush or no Howbeit, thank you. Martius stares at the dead soldier.
AUFIDIUS: Five times, Martius, I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me, And would do so, I think, should we
ENCOUNTER: As often as we eat. He becomes aware some of his men are looking at him, disturbed at his fervor.
FOR WHERE: I thought to crush him in an equal force, True sword to sword, I'll stab him some way, Or wrath -- or craft -- may get him.
SOLDIER: He's the devil.
AUFIDIUS: Bolder, though not so subtle. A beat. Aufidius continues with prayer-like intensity:
AUFIDIUS: My valor, poisoned with him, Shall fly out of itself ... Nor sleep, nor sanctuary, being naked, Sick, the prayers of priests, Nor times of sacrifice, Shall lift up their rotten privilege And custom, Against my hate to Martius. In the shattered glass of the minivan window, Aufidius suddenly sees himself. He studies his own face, nurturing his dark thoughts.
AUFIDIUS: Where I find him, were it At home, upon my brother's guard, even there, Will I wash my fierce hand in his heart.
SICINIUS: Was ever man so proud as is this Martius?
CASSIUS: He has no equal.
SICINIUS: When we were chosen Tribunes for the
BRUTUS: Marked you his lip and eyes?
SICINIUS: Nay, but his taunts. They see Senator Menenius approaching. Sicinius nods to Cassius, who quickly goes. Menenius stops by on his way out. He is jolly, knowing the victory will assure his protege's political future:
MENENIUS: The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.
BRUTUS: Good or bad?
MENENIUS: Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love not Martius.
SICINIUS: Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
MENENIUS: You blame Martius for being proud?
BRUTUS: We do it not alone, sir. Subtly, the polite chit-chat is turning more serious and pointed; Menenius growing sharper. The gloves are coming off.
MENENIUS: I know you can do very little alone You talk of pride: 0 that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves! 0 that you could!
BRUTUS: What then, sir?
MENENIUS: Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting, proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as any in Rome. The saturnine Sicinius' response seems almost a threat:
SICINIUS: Menenius, you are known well enough too.
MENENIUS: I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying water in it; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning. What I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath.
BRUTUS: Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
MENENIUS: You know neither me, yourselves nor anything You are ambitious. A tense beat. They are formidable adversaries.
MENENIUS: Good-e'en to your worships. More of your conversation would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians I will be bold to take my leave of you. He goes. The Tribunes watch him cut through the lunch crowd and exit.
VOLUMNIA: Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius approaches! For the love of Juno, let's go.
MENENIUS: Is he not wounded? He was wont to come home wounded.
VIRGILIA: 0, no, no, no...
(VICTORIOUSLY): 0, he is wounded! I thank the gods for it.
MENENIUS: So do I too -- if it be not too much. Brings a victory in his pocket, the wounds become him. Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
VOLUMNIA: Titus Lartius says they fought together, but Aufidius got off.
VIRGILIA: In truth, there's wondrous things spoke of him. Gods grant them true.
VOLUMNIA: (an exhalation of scorn) True?!
MENENIUS: I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded? Volumnia and Menenius now gleefully add up her son's wounds like accountants -- or campaign managers.
VOLUMNIA: In the shoulder and in the left arm. There will be large scars to show the people, when he shall stand for his place He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts in the body.
MENENIUS: One in the neck, and two in the thigh - there's nine that I know.
VOLUMNIA: He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him.
MENENIUS: Now it's twenty-seven. Every gash was an enemy's grave. We focus on Volumnia's face as she thinks about her son.
BEFORE HIM: He carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears. Death, that dark spirit, in his nervy arm
DOTH LIE;: Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die. They hurry to the stop of a grand staircase, where there are people waiting...
COMINIUS: Be it known, As to us, to all the world, that Caius
MARTIUS: Wears this war's garland And from this time, For what he did before Corioles, call him, With all the applause and clamor of the host, "Caius Martius Coriolanus!"
(TO MARTIUS): Bear the addition nobly ever! The soldiers salute in a grim sort of chant:
SOLDIERS: Caius Martius Coriolanus! Coriolanus has reached the podium. An awkward beat. Cominius gestures for him to speak into the microphones. He tersely does so:
CORIOLANUS: No more of this; it does offend my heart. Pray now, no more. An awkward silence. Cominius elegantly tries to covers the
COMINIUS: Look, sir, your mother.
VOLUMNIA: Nay, my good soldier, up. (he slowly rises) My gentle Martius, worthy Caius, and By deed-achieving honor newly named - What is it? - Coriolanus must I call thee? She laughs coquettishly, thoroughly upstaging her son. Then, almost an afterthought:
VOLUMNIA: But, 0, thy wife... Coriolanus greets Virgilia with the clumsy and stiff formality that marks their marriage.
CORIOLANUS: My gracious silence, hail. An awkwardly tender kiss. He notes her tears. Reacts coldly.
CORIOLANUS: Would thou have laughed had I come coffined home, That weeps to see me triumph? Ay, my dear, Such eyes the widows in Corioles wear, And mothers that lack sons.
MENENIUS: Now, the gods crown thee!
CORIOLANUS: (greets him warmly) And live you yet?
(LAUGHS): I know not where to turn. 0, welcome home! And welcome, general. And you're welcome all!
MENENIUS: A hundred thousand welcomes! Coriolanus is surrounded by well-wishers and political admirers. Volumnia and Menenius usher him along. We see the image from TV: The noble warrior returned home. Devoted family. Flags waving. The future golden.
CORIOLANUS: The good Senators must be visited; From whom I have received not only greetings, But with them change of honors. He shifts painfully as she continues to treat one of his wounds.
VOLUMNIA: I have lived To see inherited my very wishes And the buildings of my fancy. Only There's one thing wanting, which I doubt
NOT BUT: Our Rome will cast upon thee. He catches her eye in the mirror, very firm:
CORIOLANUS: Know, good mother, I had rather be their servant in my way, Than sway with them in theirs. They stop when-- Virgilia enters. She stops in the doorway. It is embarrassing for her, as if she has interrupted two lovers. A long moment. She looks to her husband. To Volumnia. They stare back. There is no way she can compete with their intimacy. Surrendering, she silently goes.
SICINIUS: He cannot temperately transport his honors, but will Lose those he hath won.
BRUTUS: I heard him swear, Were he to stand for Consul, never would
HE: Appear in the marketplace nor Showing, as the manner is, his wounds To the people, beg "their stinking breaths."
SICINIUS: It was his word.
BRUTUS: So it must fall out with him, Or our authorities at an end.
SICINIUS: We must suggest to the people in what
HATRED: He still hath held them.
(SHUSHING HIM): Peace...
MENENIUS: Therefore, please you, Most reverend and grave elders, to desire The present Consul, and last general In our well-found successes, to report A little of that worthy work performed By Caius Martius Coriolanus.
SENATOR: Speak, good Cominius. General Cominius rises and moves to the podium. But then Coriolanus abruptly stands--
MENENIUS: Nay, keep your place.
SENATOR: Sit, Coriolanus. Never shame to hear What you have nobly done.
CORIOLANUS: Your honors' pardon. I had rather have my wounds to heal again Than hear say how I got them.
MENENIUS: Pray now, sit down.
CORIOLANUS: I had rather have one scratch my head in
THE SUN: When the alarum were struck than idly sit To hear my nothings monstered. Coriolanus moves across the dais and exits into a hallway. The door shuts after him. Menenius sighs. Nods to Cominius. Cominius moves to the podium and begins to read his speech from a Teleprompter. This all has the rehearsed quality of a campaign nomination speech.
COMINIUS: The deeds of Coriolanus Should not be uttered feebly. It is held That valor is the chiefest virtue, and Most dignifies the haver. Alone he
ENTERED: The mortal gate of the city, And struck Corioles like a planet, From face to foot He was a thing of blood... Brutus and Sicinius exchange a glance, bored by the political boilerplate.
MENENIUS: The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased To make thee Consul! Menenius steps back. A beat. Coriolanus stares at the Senators. At the TV cameras. He leans awkwardly into the podium microphone:
CORIOLANUS: I do owe them still My life and services. A beat. For an acceptance speech, rather terse. Menenius jumps in to salvage the moment:
MENENIUS: It then remains That you do speak to the people.
CORIOLANUS: I do beseech you, Let me overleap that custom, for I cannot
ENTREAT THEM: For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage. Please you that I may pass this doing. From the Senate floor, Sicinius jumps on this:
SICINIUS: Sir, the people Must have their voices!
MENENIUS: (calming, to Coriolanus) Pray you, go fit you to the custom.
CORIOLANUS: It is a part That I shall blush in acting, and might
WELL: Be taken from the people. Menenius quickly turns off Coriolanus' microphone.
(TO SICINIUS): Mark you that?
CORIOLANUS: To brag unto them "Thus I did, and thus!" Show them the unaching scars which I should hide, As if I had received them for the hire Of their breath only! Menenius sees Coriolanus is getting angry, this could be disastrous. He elegantly gestures for Cominius to escort Coriolanus out immediately -- as he addresses the Senators and TV cameras:
MENENIUS: To our noble Consul Wish we all joy and honor! He applauds. The applause is taken up by the Senators. Some cheering as well for the hero of Rome The two Tribunes, however, are already whispering maliciously to other Senators. Menenius seems pleased with the general response. So far, so good.
MENENIUS: Have you not known The worthiest men have done it?
(AGREES): Custom calls me to it. What custom wills, in all things should we do... What must I say? "Look, sir, my wounds. I got them in my country's service."
MENENIUS: O me, the gods! You must not speak like that. You must
DESIRE THEM: To think upon you--
CORIOLANUS: "Think upon me"? Hang 'em! I would they would forget me.
MENENIUS: You'll mar all! The limo stops. They are at the marketplace. The moment has come. Menenius takes a breath. Urges calm:
MENENIUS: Pray you, speak to them, I pray you, In wholesome manner.
(SOURLY): Bid them wash their faces And keep their teeth clean. He leaves the car.
(TO CASSIUS): You know the cause, sir, of my standing here.
CASSIUS: We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you to it.
CORIOLANUS: Mine own desert.
TAMORA: Your own desert?
CORIOLANUS: Ay, but not mine own desire.
TAMORA: How not your own desire?
CORIOLANUS: No, it was never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.
CASSIUS: You must think, if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you.
CORIOLANUS: Well then, I pray, your price of the Consulship?
WAR VET: The price is to ask it kindly.
CORIOLANUS: Kindly, sir, I pray, let me have it. I have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private Your good voice, sir. What say you?
(IMPRESSED): You shall have it, worthy sir.
CORIOLANUS: A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begged. I have your alms. Adieu. Business done, so he thinks, Coriolanus crisply moves on. Cassius is not convinced.
CASSIUS: But this is something odd. Coriolanus continues on. He sees a large JAMAICAN WOMAN with her CHILDREN, carrying plastic grocery bags, talking to a SHOPKEEPER. He goes to them:
CORIOLANUS: Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be Consul.
JAMAICAN WOMAN: You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.
CORIOLANUS: Your enigma?
JAMAICAN WOMAN: You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends You have not indeed loved the common people.
CORIOLANUS: You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love Therefore, beseech you, I may be Consul.
SHOPKEEPER: We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give you our voices heartily.
JAMAICAN WOMAN: You have received many wounds for your country.
CORIOLANUS: I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther.
JAMAICAN WOMAN: The gods give you joy, sir, heartily! Coriolanus is warming to the task, it's easier than he thought. He moves to a central, open area and declares
CORIOLANUS: Your voices! For your voices I have
FOUGHT;: Watched for your voices; for your voices
BEAR: Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice
SIX: I have seen and heard of! A crowd is gathering. We note Brutus and Sicinius in the crowd. Menenius, too, has moved in.
CORIOLANUS: For your voices Have done many things, some less, some more. Your voices! Indeed, I would be Consul.
WAR VET: He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice!
JAMAICAN WOMAN: The gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people! The Citizens applaud and give their support:
CITIZENS: Amen, amen. God save thee, noble Consul!
CORIOLANUS: Worthy voices! Menenius, with Brutus and Sicinius, goes to him:
MENENIUS: You have stood your limitation, and the
TRIBUNES: Endue you with the people's voice.
CORIOLANUS: Is this done?
SICINIUS: The custom of request you have discharged. The people do admit you, and are summoned To meet anon upon your approbation.
CORIOLANUS: Where? At the Senate?
SICINIUS: There, Coriolanus.
MENENIUS: I'll keep you company.
(TO BRUTUS): Will you along?
(DECLINES): We stay here for the people. Coriolanus and Menenius go, relieved the trial is over. Brutus and Sicinius, however, have work to do. This has not gone as they wanted. They are urgent:
SICINIUS: How now, my masters! Have you chose this man?
(RUEFULLY): He has our voices, sir.
BRUTUS: We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
TAMORA: Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice, He mocked us when he begged our voices.
CERTAINLY: He flouted us downright.
JAMAICAN WOMAN: No, it is his kind of speech; he did not mock us.
(SHARPLY): He should have showed us His marks of merit, wounds received for's country.
SICINIUS: Why, so he did, I am sure.
TAMORA: No, no! No one saw them!
CASSIUS: (inciting the crowd) Was not this mockery? Brutus presses hard:
BRUTUS: When he had no power, But was a petty servant to the state, He was your enemy, ever spake against Your liberties.
SICINIUS: Did you perceive He did solicit you in free contempt When he did need your loves, and do you
THINK: That his contempt shall not be bruising
TO YOU: When he hath power to crush?
CASSIUS: He's not confirmed; we may deny him yet!
TAMORA: And will deny him! I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
CASSIUS: I twice five hundred and their friends! The crowd roars approval. A frightening, animal sound.
SICINIUS: Let them assemble, And on a safer judgment all revoke Your ignorant election.
BRUTUS: Enforce his pride, And his old hate unto you!
SICINIUS: And presently, when you have drawn your number, Repair to the Capitol.
CASSIUS: We will so!
TAMORA: We will so! All Repent in their election! Cassius and Tamora lead the crowd. It is a terrifying spectacle of sudden mob rage, only a razor-thin edge to violence. Brutus and Sicinius watch, satisfied, like Robespierre and Saint Just looking over the bloody guillotine.
(TO TITUS): Tullus Aufidius then has assembled a new army?
TITUS: He has, my lord.
CORIOLANUS: Saw you Aufidius?
TITUS: He is retired to Antium.
CORIOLANUS: Spoke he of me?
TITUS: He did, my lord.
CORIOLANUS: How? What?
TITUS: How often he had met you, sword to sword; That of all things upon the earth he
HATED: Your person most.
CORIOLANUS: At Antium lives he?
TITUS: At Antium.
CORIOLANUS: I wish I had a cause to seek him there, To oppose his hatred fully. They hear the growing rumble of a crowd. Curious. They continue on and turn a corner to...
(TO TITUS): Behold, these are the Tribunes of the people, The tongues of the common mouth.
SICINIUS: Pass no further.
CORIOLANUS: Ha! What is that?
BRUTUS: It will be dangerous to go on. No further.
CORIOLANUS: What makes this change?
MENENIUS: The matter?
COMINIUS: Hath he not passed the nobles and the commons?
BRUTUS: Cominius, no. Coriolanus steps closer to Brutus. The mob sees him through the glass doors. The tension immediately increases.
CORIOLANUS: Have I had children's voices?
TITUS: Tribunes, give way.
BRUTUS: The people are incensed against him.
CORIOLANUS: (glancing to the growing
CROWD): Are these your herd?
MENENIUS: Be calm, be calm.
BRUTUS: The people cry you mocked them, and of late called them Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
CORIOLANUS: But this was known before.
SICINIUS: You show too much of that For which the people stir. If you will
PASS: To where you are bound, you must inquire your way. The crowd outside is growing restless, sensing and responding to the building tension. The police try to hold them back, keeping them away from the doors. The crowd presses in. We see Cassius and Tamora at the forefront, urging the crowd on.
MENENIUS: Let's be calm--
COMINIUS: The people are abused, set on--
MENENIUS: Not now, not now--
TITUS: Not in this heat, sir-- Coriolanus strides angrily toward the doors and exits-- The others follow--
CORIOLANUS: My nobler friends, I crave their pardons. For the mutable, rank-scented crowd, Let them regard me as I do not flatter, And therein behold themselves. I say again, In soothing them, we nourish against our
SENATE: The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition, Which we ourselves have ploughed for, sowed, and scattered, By mingling them with us!
MENENIUS: Well, no more!
TITUS: No more words, we beseech you-- The mob has surrounded them all by now. The police are getting nervous, eyes darting uneasily from the unruly crowd to the volatile men. This all has the potential of sparking to violence. We note a TV news crew moving into position, covering the action. Others film with cell phone cameras. We intercut some of this footage.
BRUTUS: (to Coriolanus, provoking) You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity.
SICINIUS: It were well we let the people know it.
CORIOLANUS: Were I as patient as the midnight sleep, By Jove, it would be my mind!
SICINIUS: It is a mind That shall remain a poison where it is, Not poison any further.
(EXPLODES): "Shall remain"! Hear you this Triton of the minnows? Mark
YOU: His absolute "shall"?
BRUTUS: Why, should the people give One that speaks thus their voice?
CORIOLANUS: I'll give my reasons, More worthier than their voices! Menenius tries to pull him away, Coriolanus shakes free and continues the attack:
CORIOLANUS: By Jove himself, It makes the consuls base; and my soul
ACHES: To know, when two authorities are up, Neither supreme, how soon confusion, May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take The one by the other. The crowd roars angrily -- Coriolanus spins on them:
CORIOLANUS: Thus we debase the nature of our seats, and make the rabble Call our cares fears; which will in time Break ope the locks of the Senate, and
BRING IN: The crows to peck the eagles!
MENENIUS: Come, enough!
BRUTUS: Enough, with over-measure.
SICINIUS: (calls to the mob) He has spoken like a traitor, and shall
ANSWER: As traitors do! At the word "traitor" Coriolanus loses all reason, he is
CORIOLANUS: Thou wretch, despite overwhelm thee!
BRUTUS: Manifest treason!
SICINIUS: This is a Consul? No!
CORIOLANUS: Hence, old goat! Coriolanus grabs Sicinius roughly and flings him aside-- At this -- the crowd ROARS in outrage -- the TV crews hustle
FOR POSITION--: Menenius pulls Coriolanus off:
MENENIUS: On both sides more respect!
SICINIUS: (calling to the crowd) Here's he that would take from you all your power! The crowd reacts angrily -- surging forward against the restraint of the police. We see grim RIOT POLICE marching into position. The crowd is not intimidated, they are spoiling for a fight. The Tribunes provoke the crowd even more, escalating and building the fever:
BRUTUS: You are at point to lose your liberties! Martius would have all from you, Martius, Whom late you have named for Consul.
SICINIUS: What is the city but the people?!
TAMORA: True! The people are the city!
SICINIUS: We do here pronounce, upon the part of the people, Martius is worthy of present DEATH! A huge roar from the mob. Panic and violence building. Fast
BRUTUS: Guards, seize him!
CORIOLANUS: No, I'll die here!
BRUTUS: Lay hands upon him!
SICINIUS: (to the crowd)
THE POLICE--: Riot Police march in, slamming ahead with riot shields and
TRUNCHEONS--: The mob fights back with anything at hand -- some are armed with clubs and knives, others snatch up garbage cans and newspaper vending machines, throwing them, smashing windows, battling the police, kicking and punching and screaming-- It is civil disobedience. But it is also drunken, thug violence. Terrifying in its intensity-- Menenius gets Titus and Cominius to hustle Coriolanus away--
MENENIUS: Go, get you to your house! Be gone, away! All will be naught else--
COMINIUS: Come, sir, along with us-- They hurry Coriolanus away-- The Riot Police, outnumbered, start firing TEAR GAS into the
SCREAMS--: TV news crew filming-- Chaotic, flurried violence-- Shaky TV images, cell phone video-- Choking, acrid gas-- It is a terrifying descent into public madness as all order breaks down. Rome is bloody.
(URGENTLY): As I do know the Consul's worthiness, So can I name his faults--
SICINIUS: Consul! What Consul?
MENENIUS: The Consul Coriolanus.
BRUTUS: He Consul?!
SICINIUS: It is decreed He dies tonight.
TAMORA: He's a disease that must be cut away.
MENENIUS: 0, he's a limb that has but a disease: Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy. What has he done to Rome that's worth his death? Eh? Killing our enemies?! He sees that his words are having some effect, he presses the
MENENIUS: The blood he hath lost -- He dropped it for his country. Some in the room murmur agreement.
BRUTUS: We'll hear no more--
MENENIUS: Consider this: he has been bred in the
WARS: Since he could draw a sword, and is ill
SCHOOLED: In graceful language Give me leave, I'll go to him, and undertake to bring
HIM: Where he shall answer by a lawful form, In peace, to his utmost peril.
PRO-CORIOLANUS SENATOR: Noble tribunes, It is the humane way.
ANOTHER SENATOR: The other course Will prove too bloody, and the end of it Unknown to the beginning. Sicinius is about to retort when Brutus stops him. Brutus assents, assuming the voice of reason:
BRUTUS: Be you then as the people's officer. Menenius and Coriolanus' supporters are relieved.
BRUTUS: If you bring not Martius, we'll proceed In our first way.
MENENIUS: I'll bring him to you. He goes quickly. Brutus turns to Sicinius and Tamora and begins to quietly explain his plan.
CORIOLANUS: Let them pull all about mine ears,
PRESENT ME: Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels, Yet will I still be thus to them--!
(CONTINUING UNABATED): I muse my mother Does not approve me further! He slams through a door to the living room...
CORIOLANUS: (to Volumnia, angrily) I talk of you! Why did you wish me milder? Would you
HAVE ME: False to my nature? Rather say I play The man I am! She is equally tough with him, not giving an inch, snapping
VOLUMNIA: 0, sir, sir, sir, I would have had you put your power well on, Before you had worn it out.
CORIOLANUS: Let go!
VOLUMNIA: You might have been enough the man you are, With striving less to be so!
CORIOLANUS: Let them hang!
VOLUMNIA: Av, and burn too! Her outraged fury matches his. Overpowers his.
(TO CORIOLANUS): Come, come, you have been too rough, something too rough. You must return and mend it. Coriolanus turns away.
VOLUMNIA: Pray, be counseled. I have a heart as little apt as yours, But yet a brain that leads my use of
ANGER: To better vantage.
MENENIUS: Well said, noble woman!
CORIOLANUS: What must I do?
MENENIUS: Return to the Tribunes.
CORIOLANUS: Well, what then? What then?
MENENIUS: Repent what you have spoke.
CORIOLANUS: For them? I cannot do it to the gods. Must I then do it to them?
VOLUMNIA: You are too absolute, Though therein you can never be too noble.
CORIOLANUS: (upset, walking away) Why force you this? She pursues him:
VOLUMNIA: Because that now it lies you on to speak To the people, not by your own instruction, Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you, But with such words that are but
REHEARSED IN: Your tongue, though but bastards and
SYLLABLES: Of no allowance to your bosom's truth... She moves closer to him. Her voice lower. A sort of seduction.
VOLUMNIA: I would dissemble with my nature where My fortunes and my friends at stake
REQUIRED: I should do so in honor... She is very close now. Whispering. She touches him gently, like a lover.
VOLUMNIA: I am in this your wife, your son, These senators, the nobles And you. A long beat. All are silent, watching her spin her web.
VOLUMNIA: I prithee now, my son, Go and say to them Thou art their soldier, and being bred in
BROILS: Has not the soft way In asking their good loves; but thou wilt
FRAME: Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs.
MENENIUS: This but done, even as she speaks, Why their hearts were yours.
VOLUMNIA: Prithee now, Go, and be ruled... (laughing to him) Although I know thou hadst rather Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf Than flatter him in a bower. Coriolanus smiles. A genuinely sweet moment between them. Cominius enters with several other political supporters.
COMINIUS: Sir, it is fit You make strong party, or defend yourself By calmness or by absence. All's in anger.
MENENIUS: Only fair speech.
COMINIUS: I think it will serve, if he Can thereto frame his spirit.
VOLUMNIA: He must -- and will.
(TO CORIOLANUS): Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
MUST I: With base tongue give my noble heart A lie that it must bear? . Well, I will do it. But he is still agitated. Volumnia shares a concerned glance with Menenius.
(BITTERLY): Away, my disposition, and possess me Some harlot's spirit. A beggar's tongue Make motion through my lips, and my armed knees, Who bowed but in my stirrup, bend like
HIS: That hath charity received! The thought of begging is too much, he rejects it, breaking
CORIOLANUS: I will not do it! Lest I cease to honor mine own truth And by my body's action teach my mind A most inherent baseness. Volumnia snarls at him, exasperated, building to a thunder that dwarfs his:
VOLUMNIA: At thy choice, then! To beg of thee, it is my more dishonor Than thou of them. Come all to ruin! Let Thy mother rather feel thy pride than
FEAR: Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at
DEATH: With as biq heart as thou! Do as you like! The words echo. It is as if he has been slapped. His resolve vanishes.
CORIOLANUS: Pray, be content... Mother, I am going, chide me no more. He awaits her approval. She will not yet grant it.
CORIOLANUS: Look, I am going... Commend me to my wife. I'll return Consul, Or never trust to what my tongue can do In the way of flattery further. She graciously bows to him.
VOLUMNIA: Do your will. Then she kisses him. And she goes. Like a queen. Volumnia triumphant. Always. Then a shocking hard cut to:
(TO SICINIUS): In this point charge him home: that he
AFFECTS: Tyrannical power. If he evade us there, Enforce him with his envy to the people.
(TO TAMORA): Have you a catalogue Of all the voices that we have procured Set down by the poll?
TAMORA: I have; it's ready.
SICINIUS: When the people hear me say "It shall be
SO: In the right and strength of the Commons," be it either For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them, If I say "Fine," cry "Fine!" - if "Death," cry "Death!"
TAMORA: We shall inform them.
61: Cassius and Tamora hurry off to instruct and manipulate the crowd as best they can. They mix with the audience in the stands.
MEANWHILE--: A gloomy but resolved Coriolanus walks with Cominius and Menenius between the tiers of audience, on the way to the set.
ARM YOURSELF: To answer mildly, for they are prepared With accusations, as I hear, more strong Than are upon you yet.
CORIOLANUS: The word is "mildly." Pray you, let us go. Let them accuse me by invention, I Will answer in mine honor.
MENENIUS: Ay, but mildly.
CORIOLANUS: Well, mildly be it then. Mildly! Coriolanus steels himself as they emerge from between the stands and head toward the set. TV news crews are waiting. Blinding lights snap on. The crowd, on seeing Coriolanus, lets out a ROAR. Deafening and savage. We see Cassius and Tamora moving through the crowd, instigating, convincing, imploring. Coriolanus ignores it all. Imperious to the end. Brutus and Sicinius wait on the set.
BRUTUS: (whispers to Sicinius) Put him to choler straight. Coriolanus and his supporters move to the stage. Coriolanus glares at the Tribunes. The TV crews take up position. Menenius gestures for Coriolanus to step to the microphone, whispering to him:
MENENIUS: Calmly, I do beseech you. Coriolanus steps to the microphone. Brutus gestures for the crowd to quiet down. We see bits of this scene through the monitors on the TV cameras. When the crowd is silent, Coriolanus begins to make a
CORIOLANUS: The honored gods-- But his voice echoes badly with reverb. Menenius adjusts the microphone. Coriolanus begins again, quickly and by rote:
CORIOLANUS: The honored gods Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of
JUSTICE: Supplied with worthy men. Plant love among us. Throng our large temples with the shows of peace, And not our streets with war.
COMINIUS: Amen, amen.
MENENIUS: A noble wish. His boilerplate speech over, Coriolanus turns to Sicinius who is at the other standing microphone:
CORIOLANUS: Shall I be charged no further than this present? Must all determine here?
SICINIUS: I do demand, If you submit you to the people's voices.
CORIOLANUS: I am content.
MENENIUS: Lo, citizens, he says he is content. The warlike service he has done,
CONSIDER; THINK: Upon the wounds his body bears, which
SHOW: Like graves in the holy churchyard.
CORIOLANUS: (uncomfortable with this) Scratches with briers, Scars to move laughter only.
MENENIUS: Consider further, That when he speaks not like a citizen, You find him like a soldier. Do not take His rougher accents for malicious sounds, But, as I say, such as become a soldier. Coriolanus cuts in, his impatience getting the better of him:
CORIOLANUS: What is the matter That being passed for Consul with full voice, I am so dishonored that the very hour You take it off again?
SICINIUS: We charge you that you have contrived to
TAKE: From Rome all seasoned office, and to
WIND: Yourself into a power tyrannical
SICINIUS (CONT'D): (the coup de grace) For which you are a traitor to the people. Coriolanus responds, a cobra striking:
CORIOLANUS: How? Traitor?!
(ALARMED): Nay, temperately! Your promise.
CORIOLANUS: The fires in the lowest hell fold in the people! Call me their traitor, thou injurious Tribune!
(CALLING): Mark you this, people?! The crowd responds, egged on by Cassius and Tamora. A murmur of voices, a chant growing, "Traitor traitor traitor..." Brutus cleverly plays the reasonable voice, knowing his words will further rile Coriolanus:
BRUTUS: But since he hath Served well for Rome--
(SNAPS): What do you prate of service?
BRUTUS: I talk of that, that know it.
CORIOLANUS: You?! I'll know no further. Let them pronounce death, exile, Flaying, pent to linger But with a grain a day - I would not buy Their mercy at the price of one fair word!
SICINIUS: In the name of the people And in the power of us the Tribunes, we, Even from this instant, banish him our city! In the people's name, I say IT SHALL BE SO! Well-rehearsed by Cassius and Tamora, many in the crowd respond with a fierce cry:
CROWD: It shall be so! It shall be so! Let him away!
TAMORA: He's banished! IT SHALL BE SO!
CROWD: It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...! Cassius and Tamora keep the crowd at a fever pitch-- They keep chanting and railing-- A building seismic rumble--
(STEPPING FORWARD): Hear me, my masters, and my common friends--!
SICINIUS: He's sentenced. No more hearing.
COMINIUS: Let me speak! The crowd's fury is building-- It is all about to erupt--
BRUTUS: There's no more to be said, but he is
BANISHED: As enemy to the people and his country.
CROWD: It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...!
CORIOLANUS EXPLODES--: His rage is volcanic-- He SLAMS the standing microphone away-- His dragon's ROAR silences the entire studio--
CORIOLANUS: Whose breath I hate As reek of the rotten fens, whose loves I
PRIZE: As the dead carcasses of unburied men That do corrupt my air... (each word an attack)
CORIOLANUS: Here remain with your uncertainty. Let every feeble rumor shake your hearts! Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes, Fan you into despair! Have the power
STILL: To banish your defenders, till at length Your ignorance - which finds not till it feels,
CORIOLANUS (CANT'D): Making but reservation of yourselves; Still your own foes - deliver you As most abated captives to some nation That won you without blows! A beat. The TV cameras hum. The crowd is silent. Menenius and the others watch in amazement. Coriolanus slowly takes one last, long look at the people of Rome.
CORIOLANUS: Despising, For you, the city, thus I turn my back. He turns and slowly walks toward one of the tunnels leading from the studio. The crowd follows every step with their eyes. He stops. Turns back. Steel.
CORIOLANUS: There is a world elsewhere. And he goes down the tunnel. Disappearing from view. A silent beat. Then, a chilling cry of absolutely Jacobin bloodlust from the
TAMORA: The people's enemy is gone! The crowd SCREAMS their approval. The SAVAGE CRY echoes around the studio. The echoing roar takes us to...
(TO VIRGILIA): Come, leave your tears. A brief farewell.
THE BEAST: With many heads butts me away.
0 HEAVENS 0 HEAVENS: Volumnia has tears in her eyes as well. Coriolanus is surprisingly unsentimental and tough with her:
CORIOLANUS: Nay, mother, Where is your ancient courage?
VOLUMNIA: Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome, And occupations perish!
CORIOLANUS: Nay, mother, I shall be loved when I am lacked. She nods to him, she has regained her composure.
(EMBRACING TITUS): Bid me farewell.
TITUS: Farewell, Martius.
(EMBRACING COMINIUS): Cominius, droop not, adieu. I'll do well yet. He goes to Menenius, who is genuinely distraught. For all his political machinations, he truly cares for Coriolanus. Coriolanus is moved to see Menenius so emotional.
CORIOLANUS: Thou old and true Menenius, Thy tears are salter than a younger man's, And venomous to thine eyes.
(DEEPLY): If I could shake off but seven years I'd go with thee every foot. They embrace. Then Coriolanus knows it is time to go. He picks up a traveling bag and slings it over his shoulder. Looks back at his friends and family. A beat. A certain darkness creeps into his expression. An ominous resolve.
CORIOLANUS: You shall hear from me still. He turns and looks to the distance. Miles and miles of wasteland and desolation.
CORIOLANUS: I go alone, Like to a lonely dragon. He strides off. The soldiers manning the checkpoint raise the barrier. Coriolanus walks under it. And begins walking down the long highway away from Rome. The only sound is the cold, lonely moan of the wind. We fade to...
BRUTUS: Here comes his mother.
SICINIUS: (prepares to go) Let's not meet her. They say she's mad. Volumnia stalks up to them:
VOLUMNIA: 0, you're well met. The hoarded plague of
THE GODS: Requite your love! The Tribunes try to leave, she won't let them:
VOLUMNIA: Will you be gone?
VIRGILIA: You shall stay too. I would I had the
POWER: To say so to my husband.
SICINIUS: Are you mad?
VOLUMNIA: Ay, fool, is that a shame? Note but this,
FOOL:: Hadst thou craft To banish him that struck more blows for
ROME: Than thou hast spoken words?
SICINIUS: (trying to escape) 0 blessed heavens... Volumnia is creating a scene. Heads are turning. She continues her attack on Sicinius, but is distracted and
VOLUMNIA: More noble blows than ever thou wise words, And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what -
YET GO--: Nay -- but thou shalt stay too -- I would
MY SON: Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him, His good sword in his hand.
SICINIUS: What then?
VIRGILIA: What then? He'd make an end of thy posterity.
VOLUMNIA: Bastards and all. Menenius has entered the bar, seeing the trouble he goes to them, tries to calm Volumnia:
MENENIUS: Come, come, peace...
BRUTUS: Pray, let us go. He tries to leave the bar. Volumnia stops him for final attack, something like a curse in its power:
VOLUMNIA: Now, pray, sir, get you gone. You have done a brave deed. Ere you go,
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D): This lady's husband here, this, do you see?!-- Whom you have banished, does exceed you all.
BRUTUS: Well, well, we'll leave you.
SICINIUS: Why stay we to be baited With one that wants her wits?
VOLUMNIA: I would the gods had nothing else to do But to confirm my curses! Menenius gently restrains Volumnia and the Tribunes finally escape the bar. Volumnia takes a breath, controls herself.
VOLUMNIA: Could I meet 'em But once a day, it would unclog my heart Of what lies heavy to it.
MENENIUS: You have told them home; And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me? She turns to him. A cold and killing fire in her eyes.
VOLUMNIA: Anger's my meat. I sup upon myself, And so shall starve with feeding. She takes Virgilia's hand and drags her out. Menenius watches. Saddened. Once proud Volumnia, reduced to this.
HE MOVES--: A steady stride-- He walks right up to the Guards-- Before they can even respond-- He punches one HARD in the throat -- the Guard recoils, gasping for air-- Simultaneously, Coriolanus SLAMS his other hand violently over the entire face of the second Guard -- grabbing his face firmly and SHOVING him back into the door-- So hard that the door slams aside-- And Coriolanus shoves the Guard into--
THE FACE--: He flings the Guard aside-- Aufidius and his men, all pointing weapons at Coriolanus, are stunned. A long beat. Coriolanus' face is still masked by the burnoose. Only his cold eyes are visible.
AUFIDIUS: Whence comes thou? What wouldst thou? Thy name? Coriolanus does not respond.
AUFIDIUS: Speak, man! What's thy name?
CORIOLANUS: A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears, And harsh in sound to thine. The other Guard from outside, and several other soldiers, rush in. Weapons drawn, surrounding Coriolanus. He doesn't move a muscle. Aufidius, intrigued by the stranger's courage, waves his men off.
AUFIDIUS: Say, what's thy name? Thou has a grim appearance .What's thy name?
CORIOLANUS: Know'st thou me yet?
AUFIDIUS: I know thee not Thy name? Finally, Coriolanus removes his burnoose. His face is exposed. The Volscians are stunned.
CORIOLANUS: My name is Caius Martius, who hath done To thee particularly and to all the
VOLSCES: Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness
MAY: My surname Coriolanus. The Volscians look to Aufidius, very nervous, unsure how to proceed. Aufidius just stares back at Coriolanus, staggered.
CORIOLANUS: Only that name remains. Aufidius doesn't understand. Coriolanus explains:
CORIOLANUS: The cruelty and envy of the people, Who have all forsook me, hath devoured the rest, And suffered me by the voice of slaves to
CORIOLANUS (CANT'D): Whooped out of Rome. Now this extremity Hath brought me to thy hearth, not out of
HOPE -: Mistake me not - to save my life; for if I had feared death, of all the men in the
WORLD: I would have avoided thee, but in mere spite, To be full quit of those my banishers, Stand I before thee here. Coriolanus dares to take a step toward Aufidius-- The Volscians react. Guns are raised, fingers tight on triggers, an instant from opening fire-- Coriolanus carefully holds out his arms. He's unarmed. Aufidius nods to his men. They hold their fire. Coriolanus slowly crosses the room toward Aufidius. Step by step. Their eyes are locked. Nothing else in the world exists.
CORIOLANUS: I will fight Against my cankered country with the
SPLEEN: Of all the under fiends. But if thou Dares not this, then I present My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice... Coriolanus stops right in front of Aufidius and slowly, carefully, undoes his collar. Exposing his naked throat. Bending back his head. Ready for execution.
CORIOLANUS: Which not to cut would show thee but a fool, Since I have ever followed thee with hate, And cannot live but to thy shame unless It be to do thee service. A long beat. Aufidius stares at Coriolanus. The Volscians watch, eyes wide, too tense to do anything now.
AUFIDIUS: O Martius Martius Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart A root of ancient envy. He offers his hand. Coriolanus takes it. Aufidius continues to hold him by the hand, rather intensely, speaking low:
AUFIDIUS: Let me twine Mine arms about that body. He embraces Coriolanus. Aufidius' men finally relax. Weapons are lowered. Relieved glances exchanged. Some of the Volscians, though, are clearly suspicious of Coriolanus. They watch Aufidius and Coriolanus, concerned. Aufidius still can't quite believe his ancient enemy is now his newest ally.
KNOW THOU: I loved the maid I married; never man Sighed truer breath. But that I see thee here, Thou noble thing, more dances my rapt
HEART: Than when I first my wedded mistress saw Bestride my threshold. Coriolanus glances to him, perhaps a little disturbed or embarrassed by the intensity of Aufidius' words. Aufidius steps away from him, gestures for Coriolanus to sit.
AUFIDIUS: Why, thou Mars, I tell thee, We have a power on foot, and I had
PURPOSE: Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
AUFIDIUS (CONT'D): Or lose mine arm for it. Thou hast beat
ME OUT: Twelve several times, and I have nightly
SINCE: Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me. Aufidius continues quietly, almost whispering:
AUFIDIUS: Worthy Martius, Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that Thou art thence banished, we would muster
ALL: From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome, Like a bold flood, overbear it.
AUFIDIUS: 0, come, go in, And take our friendly senators by the hands. Coriolanus shakes hands with the politicians:
CORIOLANUS: You bless me, gods. Then Aufidius takes him to a huge military map laid out on a pool table. Rome and her territories. Strategic markers denote Roman forces and Volscian forces.
AUFIDIUS: Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou
WILT HAVE: The leading of thine own revenges, take The one half of my commission. The Volscian soldiers and politicos are shocked. Aufidius is giving Coriolanus command of half his forces!
AUFIDIUS: And set down--- As best thou art experienced, since thou
KNOWS: Thy country's strength and weakness--- thine own ways, Whether to knock against the gates of Rome, Or rudely visit them in parts remote, To fright them ere destroy. Aufidius looks at Coriolanus hard. There it is. The gauntlet is thrown down. Coriolanus will have to completely betray Rome: expose her military weaknesses, tell her secrets. For all his neurotic intensity, Aufidius is a shrewd man. Coriolanus nods and turns to the battle map, moving various markers around to show Rome's defensive positions. Aufidius watches him with Machiavellian calm.
BRUTUS: Is this Menenius?
SICINIUS: 'Tis he,'tis he! 0, he is grown most kind of late. Hail sir!
MENENIUS: Hail to you both.
YOUR CORIOLANUS: Is not much missed, but with his friends.
MENENIUS: All's well, and might have been much
BETTER IF: He could have temporized.
SICINIUS: Where is he, hear you?
MENENIUS: Nay, I hear nothing. His mother and his
WIFE: Hear nothing from him.
BRUTUS: Caius Martius was A worthy officer in the war, but insolent, Overcome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
MENENIUS: I think not so.
SICINIUS: And Rome sits safe and still without him. They are distracted when people begin talking loudly, alarmed, at the bar. They hush each other and watch the TV over the bar. Something has happened. On the TV: a SPECIAL REPORT. Breaking News. A scroll across the bottom of the screen reads "The Volscians On The March?"
(ON TV): Reports the Volsces with two several
POWERS: Are entered in the Roman territories, And with the deepest malice of the war Destroy what lies before them...
MENENIUS: 'Tis Aufidius, Who, hearing of our Martius' banishment, Thrusts forth his horns again into the world.
(NERVOUS): Come, what talk you of Martius?
BRUTUS: It cannot be the Volsces dare break with us.
(ON TV): The nobles in great earnestness are going All to the Senate House. Some news is
COMING: That turns their countenances... (he listens to his ear piece for a second) Yes, the first report is seconded, and more, More fearful, is delivered. The TV picture switches to a flustered TV REPORTER outside the Senate. A lot of nervous activity behind him.
(ON TV): It is spoke freely out of many mouths - How probable I do not know - that Martius Has ioined with Aufidius-- There is an audible gasp in the bar -- quickly silenced and hushed so all can hear the TV:
(ON TV): --He leads a power against Rome, And vows revenge as spacious as between The youngest and oldest thing. Something close to terror on the faces of the politicos. Menenius, without a word, goes. He does not want to believe this is possible.
(ON TV): A fearful army, led by Caius Martius Associated with Aufidius, rages Upon our territories, and have already Overborne their way, consumed with fire,
AND TOOK: What lay before them.
(ON TV): Martius has joined with the Volscians - He is their god. He leads them like Boys pursuing summer butterflies Or butchers killing flies. Close up on Volumnia's face. She gives away practically nothing. She takes a slow drag on her cigarette.
AUFIDIUS: Do they still fly to Coriolanus?
LIEUTENANT: I do not know what witchcraft's in him,
BUT: Your soldiers use him as the grace before meat, Their talk at table, and their thanks at end. And you are darkened in this action, sir.
AUFIDIUS: He bears himself more proud, Even to my person, than I thought he
WOULD: When first I did embrace him. They turn and walk to the building where Aufidius is
LIEUTENANT: Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
(GRIM): I think he'll be to Rome As is the osprey to the fish, who takes
IT: By sovereignty of nature. Aufidius nods to the guards outside his quarters and enters with his Lieutenant...
AUFIDIUS: Whether t'was pride, Whether defect of judgement, Or whether nature, Not to be other than one thing, Made him feared, So hated, and so banished. A beat as he studies the picture. His lieutenant watches him closely, disturbed by Aufidius' obsession with Coriolanus.
AUFIDIUS: So our virtues Lie in the interpretation of the time. He brings the picture closer, whispering now:
AUFIDIUS: One fire drives out one fire; one nail,
ONE NAIL;: Rights by rights founder, strengths by strengths do fail And when, Caius, Rome is thine,
AUFIDIUS (CONT'D): Thou art poorest of all -- then shortly art thou mine.
MENENIUS: No, I'll not go!
MENENIUS: Go, you that banished him! A mile before his tent fall down, and
KNEE: The way into his mercy. They stop when Titus enters with General Cominius. Titus is dusty, has just come from somewhere. He is pale. Truly shaken. Menenius and the others crowd around him, waiting for his report. Titus sits, takes a moment to pull himself together, and then reports with the grim severity of a death sentence:
TITUS: He would not seem to know me. A beat.
TITUS: I urged our old acquaintance, and the
DROPS: That we have bled together. "Coriolanus" He would not answer to, forbade all names... A long beat. They wait for him to go on. Titus searches for the words to continue.
TITUS: He was a kind of nothing. (a difficult beat) Titleless... Till he had forged himself a name in the
FIRE: Of burning Rome. He has no more to say, his head drops. Menenius begins to leave the room. The Tribunes stop him, leading him to a secluded corner:
SICINIUS: If you refuse your aid
IF YOU: Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue, More than the instant army we can make, Might stop our countryman.
MENENIUS: No, I'll not meddle.
SICINIUS: Pray you, go to him.
MENENIUS: What should I do? Brutus stops him, with real emotion:
BRUTUS: Only make trial what your love can do For Rome towards Martius.
MENENIUS: Well, and say that Martius Return me, as Titus is returned, Unheard - what then?
SICINIUS: Yet your good will Must have that thanks from Rome. Menenius thinks about it.
BRUTUS: You know the very road into his kindness, And cannot lose your way.
MENENIUS: I'll undertake it I think he'll hear me. The Tribunes are relieved. Cominius nods and escorts Menenius out. Brutus and Sicinius return to Titus.
TITUS: He'll never hear him.
SICINIUS: No?
TITUS: I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye Red as it would burn Rome.
REVEALING-: Coriolanus. Transformed. And terrifying. He is no longer Roman. He is not Volscian. He is, as Titus said, "a kind of nothing." He sits in the barber chair. His head is completely shaved. His face is marked with martial face painting. These striking totemic markings also cover his scarred body. He is primitive. Inhuman. Like a dragon. The Angel of Death. His young warrior Acolytes -- similarly shaved and painted -- are gathered around him; his personal bodyguard and cult. A long beat as Menenius stares at his friend, stunned at the pagan metamorphosis. Coriolanus just gazes back at him. Menenius finally pulls himself together and approaches, with
MENENIUS: The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old friend Menenius does! 0 Martius, Martius! He steps forward to hug Coriolanus. Two of the Acolytes stop him. He can approach no further. Menenius accepts this. No matter. He is completely confident he will be able to manipulate his protege. He always has in the past.
MENENIUS: Thou art preparing fire for us. Look thee, here's water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to thee, but being assured none but myself could move thee, I have been blown out of your gates with sighs, and conjure thee to pardon Rome.
CORIOLANUS: Away.
MENENIUS: How? . Away?
(ICE): Wife mother child I know not.
MY AFFAIRS: Are servanted to others. Menenius can't believe this cold response--
CORIOLANUS: Therefore be gone. His frigid eyes slice into Menenius:
CORIOLANUS: Another word, Menenius, I will not hear thee speak. Menenius stares at him, shaken to the core. The Guards pull Menenius away. Coriolanus doesn't even glance at him.
MENENIUS: This Martius is grown from man to dragon. He has wings; he's more than a creeping thing. He stops at his limo.
MENENIUS: There is no more mercy in him than there is milk in a male tiger. He climbs into his limo. Shuts the door. The limousine drives off, sending up a cloud of dust that swirls around Cominius.
CORIOLANUS: My partner in this action, You must report to the Volscian lords how
PLAINLY: I have borne this business. Aufidius is curiously formal in his response, the estrangement he feels toward Coriolanus growing:
AUFIDIUS: Only their ends You have respected; stopped your ears
AGAINST: The general suit of Rome; never admitted A private whisper, no, not with such
FRIENDS: That thought them sure of you.
CORIOLANUS: This last old man, Whom with a cracked heart I have sent to Rome, Loved me above the measure of a father. Shouts and whistles from outside the factory draw their attention.
VIRGILIA: My lord and husband-- He stop her, almost a warning, with:
CORIOLANUS: These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
VIRGILIA: The sorrow that delivers us thus changed Makes you think so.
CORIOLANUS: Best of my flesh, Forgive my tyranny, but do not say For that "Forgive our Romans." She shows great courage. Stepping forward and kissing him deeply. A long kiss.
CORIOLANUS: 0, a kiss Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge. It is a perverse response. In his monomaniacal imagination, his wife's kiss is obsessively equated with his revenge on Rome. He finally moves to Volumnia, simply can't resist her orbital pull.
CORIOLANUS: You gods I prate, And the most noble mother of the world Leave unsaluted. Sink, my knee, in the earth. He kneels before her. It is done with a sense of duty and protocol, not affection.
VOLUMNIA: 0, stand up blest. He rises.
VOLUMNIA: Then with no softer cushion than the
FLINT: I kneel before thee. She quickly and dramatically kneels before him. It is a coup de theatre and a masterpiece of manipulation.
CORIOLANUS: What is this? Your knees to me? To your corrected son?
VOLUMNIA: Thou art my warrior; I hope to frame thee. She indicates Young Martius:
VOLUMNIA: This is a poor epitome of yours, Which by the interpretation of full time May show like all yourself.
CORIOLANUS: (to his son) The god of soldiers, Inform thy thoughts with nobleness, that thou may prove To shame invulnerable. Volumnia pulls Young Martius down:
VOLUMNIA: Your knee, sir. She pulls Virgilia down:
VOLUMNIA: Even he, your wife, and myself, Are suitors to you.
CORIOLANUS: I beseech you, peace! Or, if you'd ask, remember this: Do not bid me dismiss my soldiers, or
CAPITULATE: Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not Wherein I seem unnatural. Desire not To ally my rages and revenges with Your colder reasons. Volumnia stands, assuming again a position of strength.
VOLUMNIA: 0, no more, no more! You have said you will not grant us anything, For we have nothing else to ask but that Which you deny already; yet we will ask, That, if you fail in our request, the
BLAME: May hang upon your hardness. Therefore hear us.
CORIOLANUS: Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for
WE'LL: Hear naught from Rome in private. (coldly, to her) Your request?
VOLUMNIA: Should we be silent and not speak, our
RAIMENT: And state of bodies would reveal what
LIFE: We have led since thy exile. Think with
THYSELF: How more unfortunate than all living
WOMEN: Are we come hither, since that thy sight,
WHICH SHOULD: Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance with comforts, Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow, Making the mother, wife, and child to see The son, the husband and the father
TEARING: His country's bowels out.
VOLUMNIA: For myself, son, I propose not to wait on fortune till These wars determine. If I cannot
PERSUADE THEE: Rather to show a noble grace, thou shalt
NO SOONER: March to assault thy country than to Tread on thy mother's womb That brought thee to this world.
(STANDS): Ay, and mine, That brought you forth this boy, to keep
YOUR NAME: Living to time. Young Martius stands as well and approaches his father, challenging and warlike:
YOUNG MARTIUS: You shall not tread on me. I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight! Coriolanus stares at him -- the intensity of the boy's aggression is disturbing. And familiar.
CORIOLANUS: I have sat too long. He rises and turns as if to go--
VOLUMNIA: Nay, go not from us thus! Her command stops him. She appeals, quickly getting to the point of her argument:
VOLUMNIA: If it were so that our request did tend To save the Romans, thereby to destroy The Volsces whom you serve, you might
CONDEMN US: As poisonous of your honor. No, our suit Is that you reconcile them -- so the
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D): May say "This mercy we have showed," the Romans, "This we received," and each in either
SIDE: Give the all-hail to thee and cry, "Be
BLEST: For making up this peace!" Coriolanus does not respond. She softens...
VOLUMNIA: Speak to me, son... Still he does not respond. His emotions are roiling. Still she is soft and vulnerable...
VOLUMNIA: Why dost not speak? But softness is not a note she plays naturally. She knows it. Her natural aggressiveness comes out, anger and outrage gradually boiling to the surface:
VOLUMNIA: Thinks thou it honorable for a noble man Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you. He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy. Perhaps thy childishness will move him
MORE: Than can our reasons. There's no man in
THE WORLD: More bound to his mother, yet here he lets me prate Like one in the stocks! She is assaulting him now, on the attack:
VOLUMNIA: Thou hast never in thy life Showed thy dear mother any courtesy, When she, poor hen, Has clucked thee to the wars and safely
HOME: Loaded with honor. Say my request's unjust, And spurn me back; and the gods will
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D): plague thee, That thou restrains from me the duty
WHICH: To a mother's part belongs! Coriolanus can take no more, turns and begins to walk away-- Volumnia reacts like lightning -- grabbing Virgilia and Young Martius and dragging them to the dirt with her--
VOLUMNIA: Down! Let us shame him with our knees! She claws at the dirt -- like Hecuba -- keening -- a shocking explosion of raw emotion -- almost an incantation:
VOLUMNIA: Down! An end! This is the last. So we will home to Rome, And die among our neighbors. Nay, behold! This boy, that cannot tell what he would
HAVE: But kneels and holds up hands for fellowship, Does reason our petition with more
STRENGTH: Than thou hast to deny it. She remains kneeling, panting for air. Coriolanus looks at her. His noble mother. Clawing in the dirt like an animal. Filthy. Despairing. Her face wet with tears. She looks back up at him. She senses she has failed. It's over.
VOLUMNIA: Come, let us go. She rises slowly, her age showing. Her spirit broken. Or seeming so. She stares at Coriolanus as she rips off the Roman Eagle medal she wears and flings it to the ground. The blood red sky of sunset behind her reflects her passion as she summons up all her strength for a lacerating and icy
VOLUMNIA: This fellow had a Volscian to his mother; His wife is in Corioles and his child
VOLUMNIA (CONT'D): Like him by chance Yet give us our dispatch. I am hushed until our city be afire, And then I'll speak a little. She turns and begins to go. But... We see finally Coriolanus crack. Like a great building crumbling. Like fissures cutting across marble. Emotion floods into him. He lunges forward and grabs her hand. Volumnia stops. Time stands still. He doesn't speak.
CORIOLANUS: O mother mother... What have you done? He falls to his knees, clutching her hand.
CORIOLANUS: Behold, the heavens do ope, The gods look down -- and this unnatural
SCENE: They laugh at. He buries his head in her, like a lost child:
CORIOLANUS: O my mother, mother! 0! You have won a happy victory for Rome; But for your son - believe it, 0 believe it! - Most dangerously you have with him
PREVAILED: (he looks up at her
DEEPLY): If not most mortal to him. She looks down at him. His meaning, his foreshadowing, is clear: she has saved Rome, but he knows he is doomed. Rome will live. He will die. This is the price for her victory today.
CORIOLANUS: But let it come. He stands, regains his composure. He slowly walks to Aufidius. He leans close, speaking intimately:
CORIOLANUS: Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars, I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius, Were you in my stead, would you have
HEARD: A mother less? Or granted less? Aufidius?
(CAREFULLY): I was moved withal.
CORIOLANUS: I dare be sworn you were. And, sir, it is no little thing to make Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir, What peace you'll make, advise me. We study Aufidius' face. He gives away nothing. Coriolanus turns back to Volumnia. Looks at her. She is victorious. The crimson sky looms over her ominously. And we go to...
101: It has the stiff formality of a White House ceremony. Cominius concludes signing:
COMINIUS: A merrier day did never yet greet Rome, No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins. We have all Great cause to give great thanks. He looks to Volumnia.
COMINIUS: Behold our patroness, the life of Rome. She is erect and exalted. "The Life of Rome" personified. She ignores her son. Coriolanus will not look at her.
LIEUTENANT: How is it with our general?
AUFIDIUS: As with a man by his own charity slain.
LIEUTENANT: Our soldiers will remain uncertain whilst 'Twixt you there's difference; but the
LIEUTENANT (CANT'D): fall of either Makes the survivor heir of all.
AUFIDIUS: I know it, And my pretext to strike at him admits A good construction. A beat. He continues more to himself than them, almost convincing himself.
AUFIDIUS: I raised him, and I pawned Mine honor for his truth; who being so heightened, He watered his new plants with dews of flattery, Seducing so my friends.
(BITTERLY): At the last I seemed his follower, not partner, and He waged me with his countenance as if I had been mercenary.
LIEUTENANT: So he did, my lord. The army marveled at it; and in the last, When he had carried Rome and that we
LOOKED: For no less spoil than glory-- Aufidius works himself into an intense, neurotic rage:
AUFIDIUS: There was it! For which my sinews shall be stretched upon him. At a few drops of women's rheum, which
ARE: As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and
LABOR: Of our great action -- Therefore shall he die, And I'll renew me in his fall.
LIEUTENANT: Therefore, at your vantage, Ere he express himself or move the people With what he would say, let him feel your sword, Which we will second.
(SEES SOMETHING): Say no more. In the distance they can see a Roman military truck approaching. Clouds of dust billow up. They exchange a look. This is what they have been waiting for. They stand, stretch and prepare. The truck stops across the highway from them and Coriolanus gets out. He holds a copy of the peace treaty in a leather portfolio. He is unarmed. He stops. He sees Aufidius and the thugs. Waiting for him. Like a death squad. Coriolanus looks at them. He knows exactly what's going to happen. He is ready. He nods and the truck drives off. Coriolanus slowly crosses the highway to the truck stop, like a gunslinger walking down Main Street. There is something new to Coriolanus here. A sort of acceptance. He knows his time is past. Aufidius and the thugs go to meet him. The thugs spread out a bit, strategically, getting ready to strike. Coriolanus' experienced eyes miss none of this. They meet in the parking lot.
(TO AUFIDIUS): I am returned your soldier, No more infected with my country's love Than when I parted hence, but still
SUBSISTING: Under your great command. He hands the treaty portfolio to Aufidius:
CORIOLANUS: We have made peace With no less honor to the Volscians Than shame to the Romans.
AUFIDIUS: (handing the treaty to
LIEUTENANT): Read it not, But tell the traitor, in the highest
DEGREE: He hath abused your powers. Coriolanus is ready for Aufidius' ploy. He is amused at the obvious attempt to anger him:
CORIOLANUS: Traitor? How now?
AUFIDIUS: Ay, traitor, Martius.
CORIOLANUS: "Martius"?
AUFIDIUS: Ay, Martius, Caius Martius! Dost thou
THINK: I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy
STOLEN NAME: "Coriolanus"? He spins to the others, making the case against Coriolanus with cutting bitterness:
PERFIDIOUSLY: He has betrayed your business and given up, For certain drops of salt, your city Rome- I say "your city" - to his wife and
MOTHER;: Breaking his oath and resolution, like A twist of rotten silk; never admitting Counsel of the war, but at his nurse's
TEARS: He whined and roared away YOUR VICTORY! Coriolanus tries to contain his anger:
CORIOLANUS: Hear'st thou, Mars?
AUFIDIUS: Name not the god, thou boy of tears.
CORIOLANUS: Measureless liar, thou has made my heart Too great for what contains it. "Boy"? 0 slave. Coriolanus' eyes miss nothing a Volscian thug shifting a bead of sweat on another one secretly reaching into his coat for a weapon. Some of the Volscian thugs are clearly nervous. Coriolanus is ready. He prepares himself mentally to die. He is acutely controlled:
CORIOLANUS: Cut me to pieces, Volsces. Men and lads, stain all your edges on me. It is a dare. A challenge.
CORIOLANUS: "Boy"? False hound. If you have writ your annals true, 'tis
THERE: That, like an eagle in a dovecote, I Fluttered your Volscians in Corioles. His gaze burns into Aufidius:
CORIOLANUS: Alone I did it "Boy."
AUFIDIUS: Let him die for it. At this command, his men move-- Aufidius steps back as-- The Volscian thugs attack-- With knives, machetes and tire irons-- Coriolanus fights bravely -- disarming two, grabbing their weapons, killing them, fighting back-- Slashing and cutting his way through the killers- Closer and closer to Aufidius, who just watches-- Blood spattering and spraying- But the thugs overpower Coriolanus, there are just too many--
AUFIDIUS: Take him up. No one moves.
AUFIDIUS: Assist. Abrupt cut to--
