MACHINE GUN PREACHER: Written by Jason Keller based on the life of Sam Childers
2: families yanked out of their burning tukuls by LRA rebels -- the adult males of this village shot dead or bludgeoned to death -- the women and children forced into the center of the village -- huddled together and weeping -- -- and now we see WILLIAM hauled out -- his captor shouting to another soldier -- pointing to WILLIAM'S mother and she's pulled from the group and forced onto her knees... ... and WILLIAM is brought in front of her -- his captor saying something in Arabic as he hands him a club -- "Kill her!" -- WILLIAM shaking his head `no' -- tossing the club in the dirt and -- CRACKKK! -- WILLIAM is hit with the butt of a rifle -- goes down -- blood streaming down his face as he's pulled back up to his feet -- crying -- shaking with fear... ... and then he sees his mother staring up at him... and despite the hell unfolding around them we see a moment here between mother and son... something calm and reassuring in the way she's looking at him now... her eyes full of love... and pity... for her child in this terrible moment... and before we see how this ends we --
SAM: Ya'll go fuck yourself now, k?
LYNN: Hey baby.
SAM: Gimme a smoke.
LYNN: Don't got any.
SAM: What, you quit?
(LYNN NODS): Shit, that ain't gonna last.
PAIGE: And she jumps into his arms.
SAM: Hey bug...
PAIGE: You see yer sign? Grandma and me made it this mornin.
SAM: Yep, real nice. Lynn enters the trailer, Paige follows.
SAM (CONT'D): How'ya doin, Mom?
DAISY: Welcome home, Sam.
LYNN: You excited, get some juice, help me set the table. Sam and Daisy enter. There's a quiet anxiety to this homecoming. Everybody on edge, careful.
LYNN (CONT'D): Hope you're staying for supper.
DAISY: Well, I didn't know if...
SAM: What time you gotta work? Lynn hesitating, not sure how to answer... not sure what's going to happen when she does... finally...
LYNN: I ain't on tonight.
SAM: What?
DAISY: (changing the subject) You know we could boil up that corn we got in there...
SAM: Friday night you ain't on? Hell is that? He walks toward the fridge.
LYNN: Paige, get that chair.
SAM: That cocksucker Mark better be givin you yer time or I'm gonna go over there and bust in his teeth. Why ain't there no beer?
LYNN: I ain't dancin no more, Sam. He turns to her, studies her with cold eyes...
LYNN (CONT'D): Quit a couple weeks ago. Got a job over at Freemont.
SAM: You tellin me the truth or is this a joke?
LYNN: Pick up a second shift now and then. Weekends if I want em. It's good money.
SAM: Good money? You stupid, woman? You quit strippin to pack fucking mushrooms at Freemont?
DAISY: Sam...
SAM: Mom, keep yer mouth shut. Sam's face changing, starting to turn bad. A look we'll come to know.
LYNN: They're good to me over there, Sam. They got daycare for Paige and I can get medical at the end of the year.
SAM: Tell you what you're gonna do, you're goin back to The Bunny Hop and askin that cocksucker for yer old slot back...
DAISY: You ok? Let's ride our bikes outside.
LYNN: No, Sam...
SAM: Fuck you ain't. You gonna get that ass back up there and make yer tips.
LYNN: It ain't right.
SAM: Fuck you talkin about? Daisy scooping up Paige and exiting, screen door slamming behind them and now Sam and Lynn are all alone.
LYNN: I ain't dancin cause it ain't right in God's eyes. He don't want me doin that no more.
SAM: You found god now, huh? That what this is?
LYNN: He found me, and he's there for you too, baby.
SAM: Don't gimme that bullshit. You a junkie stripper...
LYNN: Not no more. God helped me change while you was away. Lynn reaches for him but he shoves her back violently...
SAM: Gitcha hands off me! Sam exits.
LYNN: You can't keep goin the way you goin, baby...
DONNIE: Crazyhorse! There he is... They embrace, old friends.
DONNIE (CONT'D): Figured you'd be rollin out round now. How you doin, buddy?
SAM: I'm doin.
DONNIE: (to one of the girls) Get us a coupla shots and buds.
(SAM SITS): Don't look too worse for the wear.
SAM: I'm alright.
DONNIE: Heard yer old lady ain't at the Bunny Hop no more.
SAM: Bitch found Jesus.
DONNIE: Damn! That bearded sonuvagun slipped her the high holy dick while you was in the can, huh? Better him than the milk man, I guess.
SAM: Ain't so sure bout that. Donnie laughs, slaps him on the shoulder...
DONNIE: You wanna taste? Sam smiles that wicked smile and we go --
DONNIE: Right there. With the green light.
DONNIE: Hey, man, you there?! Open up... Donnie KNOCKING again and the door cracks an inch... and we see a black man with a SHAVED HEAD on the other side looking out...
SHAVED HEAD: Fuck are you?
DONNIE: It's me, man, c'mon. Fuckin cold out here.
SHAVED HEAD: I don't know you.
DONNIE: Yeah you do, man. I saw you the other day. I'm Bobby's friend.
SHAVED HEAD: Who the fuck is Bobby? Suddenly Sam pulls a short barrel shotgun from his jacket -- MOSSBERG 10 GAGE -- presses it to the door and --
DONNIE: Don't fuckin move! INSTANT PANDEMONIUM! -- JUNKIES hopping off the couch, scattering like rats deeper into the house -- SHAVED HEAD darting out of the room -- Sam leveling the MOSSBERG in his direction -- BOOOM! -- the room flashing like a fucking supernova.
SHAVED HEAD: -- SHAVED HEAD working his way into a corner -- holding his hands in front of his face -- terrified, shaking --
SAM: Tell me where the shit is or I'll blow yer nigger brains all over this floor.
SHAVED HEAD: (indicating a closet) In there... Sam KICKS him toward the closet --
SAME: Hurry the fuck up. SHAVED HEAD crawling to a small safe in a closet, spins the combo, opens it and pulls out six ounces of uncut cocaine.
SAM: Cash! SHAVED HEAD grabs a stack of hundreds, hands it to Sam and -- CRACKKK! -- he SLAMS the butt of the Mossberg into SHAVED HEAD'S face and he hits the ground on his back -- Sam standing over him -- shoves the barrel of the shotgun into his mouth --
DONNIE: C'mon, let's go! But Sam's not moving... just staring down at SHAVED HEAD... and we're watching something here... a terrible intelligence taking over... something bloodless and inhuman coming over Sam in this moment... and he chambers a slug into the shotgun...
DONNIE (CONT'D): Fuck are you doin?! And this is it. He's going to blow this guys brains all over the floor...
DONNIE (CONT'D): Sam... His finger curls around the trigger, eyes becoming lethal...
DONNIE (CONT'D): Sam! And he snaps back, looks around, sees Donnie standing there...
DONNIE (CONT'D): We need to get the fuck outta here!
SAM: See that nigger's face when I put it in his mouth?
DONNIE: Cook that shit up, man! I wanna hit when I'm going a hundred miles an hour in this thing. Sam juices a needle and spikes Donnie's arm. Donnie feeling the rush... pressing on the gas and howling like a wild man... both of them wired out of their heads... BLASTING down this dark, country road... and then they see...
A HITCHHIKER: Up the road, standing in this bitter cold with his thumb out.
SAM: Look at this sorry fucker...
SAM: Cold enough for ya out there, boy?
DRIFTER: Yeah.
DONNIE: Where you goin, man?
DRIFTER: Dunshore.
SAM: That's up there past Muncy, right?
DRIFTER: Yeah.
DONNIE: We can take you far as McClure.
DRIFTER: Take me to Dunshore. Sam looking back --
SAM: We ain't goin to Dunshore, boy. Said we can drop you at McClure. Suddenly -- silver flashing -- A BLADE -- out of nowhere -- pressed into Donnie's neck from the backseat -- the Drifter pulling him tight against the seat rest, pressing it into his throat --
DONNIE: What the fuck?!
DRIFTER: Keep drivin! Dunshore or I'll cut his fuckin throat.
SAM: Get that fuckin blade off him... Sam reaches his leg over and STOMPS ON THE GAS PEDDLE -- the car LURCHES forward -- accelerating --
DONNIE: Sam!
DRIFTER: But Sam's not letting up... pressing down on the peddle hard... 90... 100... 110 mph -- Donnie YELLING -- trying to keep the car on the road -- MUSIC BLARING -- like some wild ride to hell and then -- SAM SUDDENLY JUMPS IN THE BACKSEAT -- wrestling with the drifter -- fighting wild -- elbowing him in the face and somehow the blade is in his hand now -- and -- Stick, stick, stick, stick, stick, stick! He stabs him six times in the gut. The drifter HOWLING in pain.
SAM: Help me.
PAIGE: He comin or ain't he?
LYNN: I don't know.
SAM: I don't got no good shoes, Lynn. And she comes into the room, sits on the bed next to him, puts an arm around his shoulder.
LYNN: He don't care what kinda shoes you wearin, baby.
PASTOR KRAUSE: The point of receiving God's word is life. Life upon life. And to accept the blood of Jesus is life upon life upon life...
CONGREGATION: Praise be to God!
PASTOR KRAUSE: He breathes his spirit into darkness and makes something good. He sees our shadow and says, `let there be light!"
CONGREGATION: Amen!
PASTOR KRAUSE: ... now proclaim his saving grace! If there are sinners here looking for God raise your hands! A few hands shoot up --
FRONT ALTAR: And now we see Sam on his knees in the baptismal tank. The water almost up to his waist. Pastor Krause kneeling behind him.
15: clapping in the back row... and an organist and singer begin to sing "Amazing Grace" taking us to...
CONTRACTOR: Thanks for your help, Sam.
SAM: You need me to stay on, I can.
CONTRACTOR: We're movin inside next week.
SAM: I can drywall, tile, whatever you got. Know my way round some electrical too.
CONTRACTOR: Sorry, Sam, I gotta cut the crew. Just ain't enough work.
SAM: She asleep?
LYNN: Think so, in our bed... she's funny.
SAM: Job's done.
LYNN: I thought that was goin through August? Sam shakes his head, and they're quiet... both of them sitting here on these steps... the burden of this life catching up to them in this moment.
WOMAN: I got somethin in Pitt, but you gotta have some college for that.
SAM: I'm a hard worker and I learn real fast.
WOMAN: But you got no education, Mr. Childers.
MECHANIC: ... don't deal bikes. Probably have a better shot if you take it over to Pitt. Or maybe down to Philly.
SAM: I gotta sell it today.
MECHANIC: Give you four hundred for it.
SAM: There's almost two grand on this bike. Them pipes right there is custom. You wont see pipes like that on anything round here.
MECHANIC: Like I said, don't deal bikes. I'll give you four-twenty. Cash. Best I can do.
SAM: "Into the street the Piper stept, smiling first a little smile, then three shrill notes the pipe uttered like a great and mighty army muttered..."
PAIGE: What's uttered?
SAM: Like spoke up, made a sound.
PAIGE: Okay, keep goin.
SAM: (turns the page) And out of the houses the rats came tumblin, black rats, brown rats, brother rats, sister rats, and husband rats followed their little rat wives... Til they came to the ragin water where they drowned and lost their lives."
PAIGE: They got rid all them rats?
SAM: Yep.
PAIGE: How come you sold yer Harley?
SAM: Cause it's what I had to do. Off her look...
SAM (CONT'D): We're gonna be ok, bug, don't you worry. Paige curls into him closer, and we're watching him here... in this moment... holding his daughter... not so sure they're gonna be ok.
DONNIE: Well, well, well, wondered when I was gonna see you again, ole buddy. How you doin? Sam sits.
SAM: I'm doin.
DONNIE: Heard you was followin the Lord now.
SAM: Lil' bit. Donnie sizes him up, "how much is a little bit?", turns to the
DONNIE: Jackie, gimme a mash and bud...
(TO SAM): You want somethin? Sam shakes his head.
DONNIE (CONT'D): You know that old Indian didn't die out there that night. Story in the Lehigh Valley News bout it. Somebody picked that poor bastard up after us, took him to the emergency room, you believe that shit?
SAM: God was lookin out for us both, I suppose. WAITRESS slides a shot and beer in front of Donnie...
DONNIE: Well then, here's to him.
(DRINKS): Didn't hear you pull up.
SAM: Got Lynn's car.
DONNIE: She broke down on ya?
SAM: Sold her.
DONNIE: Ahhh, shit, man. Shoulda come to yer ole buddy first. Donnie smiling, inviting him back into this world. And we're watching Sam, threshold moment here, considering.
SAM: Sorry I'm late.
19: Lynn staring at him, trying to read this man's face but he's not looking at her. Avoiding her gaze. Did he use? Is he high? And then she sees a PINPRICK OF DRIED BLOOD on his shirtsleeve. Her face contorting almost imperceptibly. Her worst fear realized. Relapse. And she moves to him without saying a word... lifts up his arm and unbuttons the cuff of his shirt... slowly pushing up his shirtsleeve to discover a NEEDLE PRICK in his arm... ... and then he pulls out a $20 bill and hands it to her.
SAM (CONT'D): Gave blood over in Pitt. Lynn searching his eyes and she knows he's telling the truth.
SAM (CONT'D): That's all I got. And she pulls him close, hugging him tight, grateful.
LYNN: Somethin will come through. I promise. And we hold on Sam, his troubled eyes. Completely out of options. And we see that for this man the inability to provide for his family is crushing.
LYNN: Two touched down near Harrisberg.
SAM: Come on! Let's go... Lynn following him --
SAM: Get Paige, grab a blanket. -- Lynn darting into a bedroom, scooping Paige out of her bed.
LYNN: (yelling, over the wind) What are you doing?! He kicks a hole in the planks, turns to Lynn and Paige --
SAM: Paige crawling through the opening... into a shallow trench underneath the trailer... Lynn squeezing in behind her... Sam staying outside... no room for him... the trailer starting to buck VIOLENTLY in the tempest... thin walls contorting around him... ... and Paige starts to cry -- terrified -- Sam laying down on the floor next to the opening, close enough so she can hear his voice...
SAM (CONT'D): Bug, you hear me?! -- Bug?!
PAIGE: Yeah. And he starts to play a child's word association game with her... something she knows... something they've played before...
SAM: I'm thinkin of a snail... you hear me, Bug?! Snail.
21: And we hear her tiny little voice say...
PAIGE: Whale.
SAM: Good job, Bug, good job! You said whale, I'm thinkin of a pail!
PAIGE: You said pail, I'm thinkin of a tail. And so this little game goes between father and daughter... Paige listening to his voice... in the midst of this terrible storm... somehow becoming less terrified.
CONTRACTOR: Sam.
SAM: Billy.
CONTRACTOR: Tried to ring ya but your phones down.
SAM: Yep. Sam climbs down, moves to the truck, shakes his hand.
CONTRACTOR: Looks like ya made it through pretty good.
SAM: We're alright.
CONTRACTOR: Damn twister touched down eight places between here and Noblesville. Chewed up six hundred homes in Fulton County alone.
(BEAT): Got all the work you can handle if you're interested.
SAM: I'm interested... Sam, seizing an opportunity here.
SAM (CONT'D): But I'm puttin my own crew together. We go 50/50 on the jobs. You cover any heavy machines I need.
CONTRACTOR: 60/40 til you pay me back on the tools. Then we'll go half.
SAM: You got a deal.
LYNN: What are you doin, Sam Childers? Months later and we're with Lynn and Paige, their eyes shut, as Sam leads them both by the hand...
PAIGE: I wanna peek.
SAM: Keep em closed. Sam finally stops them.
SAM (CONT'D): Ok. Open em up. They do and both of their eyes go wide with surprise.
PAIGE: Where are we?
SAM: We're home, little girl. REVERSE to see a modest two bedroom house at the end of this driveway. Their new home.
PAIGE: That's ours?
SAM: Sure is. Go check it out. Paige sprints for the house as Lynn hugs Sam, softly starts to cry into his shoulder.
LYNN: It's beautiful.
SAM: That's everything.
LYNN: You get what's in the trunk?
SAM: Yep. Lynn looking up, seeing how dirty Sam is from the move...
LYNN: Lord, you're filthy, Sam Childers. Lynn tossing him a kitchen towel. Sam, smiling mischievously...
SAM: Who you callin filthy, woman?
LYNN: You.
SAM: You dirtier than I am.
LYNN: No I ain't.
SAM: Yes you are. I seen it. C'mon, girl, gimme a little shake...
24: Sam winking at her and playfully snapping a kitchen towel at her butt... Lynn giggling and scooting away...
LYNN: I ain't doin that no more.
SAM: ... just a little somethin for yer old man, c'mon... And he snaps her butt again but she grabs the towel and snaps him back...
SAM (CONT'D): Owww!
LYNN: You gimme a little shake... She snaps him again and he feels the sting...
SAM: C'mon, Lynn... She snaps him again but he grabs her and they fall into each other against the counter... laughing... and he kisses her... playful at first and then it becomes more passionate... and just as it starts to lead somewhere we go...
PASTOR KRAUSE: Today we are blessed with a special guest. It's my pleasure to welcome Pastor Relling from the Kilangire Christian Ministry in Uganda, Africa. Pastor... Polite applause as a tall, white South African man named PAUL RELLING steps up to the pulpit, and in a deep Afrikaner accent he
RELLING: Thank you Pastor Krause, and thank you brothers and sisters for inviting me into this house of the Lord.
(BEAT): I'm here today to talk to you about your Christian brothers and sisters, families just like yours, a half a world away that desperately need your help... And we see Sam in this sea of faces, listening.
LYNN: Paige, go get some more beans. Paige heads to the kitchen.
LYNN (CONT'D): What are you thinking?
SAM: Thinking about Africa. Paige comes back in carrying the beans.
PAIGE: They have tigers over there?
SAM: They eat people!
LYNN: What about Africa?
SAM: Just thinkin bout that fella today.
PAIGE: He talked funny.
LYNN: Just from a different place than us, baby, that's all.
SAM: Was thinkin maybe I'd go over there. Help em out fer a few weeks.
DAISY: Africa?
PAIGE: To see the tigers.
SAM: He was talkin about puttin box beam roofs on school houses over there.
LYNN: What about finishing that job in Boswell?
SAM: I'll only be gone a few weeks. Be back before you know it.
SAM: You Ugandan Army or what?
SAM: What's that?
DENG: Sudanese People's Liberation Army. We are freedom fighters.
SAM: Name's Sam Childers.
DENG: I am Deng. There is a certain reserved nobility in this man, in the way he carries himself and speaks. An unwavering strength and self-reliance born from a lifetime of war and struggle.
SAM: (re: Deng's weapon) Givin ya problems?
DENG: Yes. A bit.
SAM: Double-feed?
DENG: Sometimes.
SAM: Lemme have a look... Deng hesitates, then hands his AK over to Sam who pops the mag out and studies it...
SAM (CONT'D): Yer mag is tight. See here...
(INDICATING): The loads are feedin right to the barrel face. That's yer problem... Sam pulls out a knife and begins to work on the base plate of the mag as he explains...
SAM (CONT'D): ... you need this plate to ramp into the chamber... that way yer brass won't get stuck...
(FINISHING): ... there ya go, should be better... And Sam hands the weapon back.
DENG: Thank you.
SAM: No problem.
DENG: Are you military?
SAM: No, not me. I ain't the military type. Ain't so good with bein told what to do.
DENG: When did you learn about weapons? Sam considers the question for a moment... then simply says...
SAM: Long time ago. Different life.
DAN: Some of us are going into Kampala tomorrow night. Find ourselves a little fun this weekend. You in?
SAM: I was thinkin bout goin up north.
DAN: You crazy? There's a civil war going on up there.
SAM: I know.
SAM: Hey, Deng, you wanna Coke? Sam offers him a can and he takes it.
DENG: Thank you.
SAM: Got a question for ya.
DENG: Yes?
SAM: I wanna go into Sudan this weekend. Need someone to show me around. You interested?
DENG: The others are going into Kampala.
SAM: That ain't my speed no more. I wanna see some country. Deng looks at him, surprised by the request...
DENG: You want to see?
SAM: They always drive this fast?
DENG: Traveling is the most dangerous time in Sudan. If the rebels find you on the open road it would be very bad. An awkward silence as Deng stares out the window. Sam wanting to connect here, but Deng is reticent.
SAM: You got kids, Deng?
DENG: No. I have no children.
SAM: Where you from?
DENG: A little village called Aweil. Many hours from here.
SAM: That's where your family is? And Deng simply says...
DENG: My family was killed by LRA.
(BEAT): Unyama is about two hours from here. We will stop there for lunch.
30: Deng turns and looks out the window again, silent, quietly watching the land blur past. And Sam says nothing more, intuitively feeling this man's need to be alone in the moment. A great, lost giant.
DENG: The Muslim North has tried to kill the Christian South for 30 years. Two million have lost their lives... Deng sweeping his hand, indicating the mass of refugees.
DENG (CONT'D): ... these people have been driven from their villages, however these camps are not much better...
DENG: Cholera and Malaria are everywhere, there is little food and not enough UN soldiers to protect everyone. Even here they worry the LRA will attack at night. And another SPLA soldier comes up to Deng --
SPLA SOLDIER 1: Are you from Kitgum?
DENG: Yes.
SPLA SOLDIER 1: Someone wants to speak with you.
31: Deng turns to Sam...
DENG: I'm sorry, Sam... I'll be five minutes.
SAM: Course, do what you gotta do. Deng leaves and now Sam is completely alone, taking in this mire of humanity all around him. And suddenly there's COMMOTION! -- two aid workers coming into this tent carrying a WOMAN on a stretcher. One of the aid workers looking around -- a white woman -- mid 30's -- her name is AGNETE CLOSSON, Regional Director of Doctors Without Borders. She sees Sam across the tent.
AGNETE: Excuse me. You. Can you help please? Sam moving to her --
AGNETE (CONT'D): We need to transfer her to the bed. Get her shoulders... Sam grabbing the woman underneath the shoulders as another aid worker gets her feet...
AGNETE (CONT'D): One, two, three... And they swing the woman over to a cot... but as they do the sheer piece of blood-stained muslin that was covering her face falls away... and we see that she has been mutilated... her lips cut off of her face... ... and now a DOCTOR sweeps into the tent and begins to work on her. Sam and Agnete pushed back, away from the action. Sam still shocked by what he's seen.
SAM: What happened to her face?
AGNETE: The rebels cut off her lips because she argued. These are Kony's orders.
SAM: Who's Kony? Agnete, suddenly suspicious, takes an appraising look of Sam.
AGNETE: Who are you with?
SAM: I'm with Deng over there.
AGNETE: What organization are you with?
SAM: Working with a Christian group down South. Just up here takin a look around, seein a bit of the country.
AGNETE: This isn't a tourist destination, this is a war zone. You stay in this area, you'll be killed.
(BEAT): Thank you for your help. And she walks off.
DENG: Some say Joseph Kony is a wizard. A shapeshifter. He calls himself a Christian... He pulls a baggy of tobacco from his pocket and begins to roll a cigarette...
DENG (CONT'D): ... but I say he is Satan, who devours his own people.
SAM: Kony is the leader of the LRA?
DENG: He is the one we have been fighting for years. But there is very little we can do. Our weapons are old, and our boots are full of holes. We have been forgotten by the rest of the world. And now Deng turns to Sam...
DENG (CONT'D): Why are you here?
SAM: S'cuse me?
DENG: What are you looking for in this place?
SAM: Ain't lookin for nuthin. Deng staring at him, skeptical...
DENG: And then you will get your picture and go back to your life and all this will just be a story you tell your friends.
DENG: They are night commuters. They come from deep in the bush. Their parents send them out because it is safer to sleep here than in their own homes.
SAM: Why?
DENG: Because death comes at night in the villages and refugee camps. And we continue to watch this great migration of children... now streaming into this town... a few of them finding a dark corner just below us... unrolling their reed mats... huddling up against each other for the long night...
DENG (CONT'D): These are the lucky one so far. The ones the rebels have not found. The invisible children.
34: Sam watching them for another beat then suddenly turning, moving back into the room...
DENG (CONT'D): Where are you going?
DENG: Sam...
SAM: Get up... let's go... The children looking up, surprised to see a white man here...
SAM (CONT'D): Come on... The children getting to their feet... and Sam moves to another cluster of children up the block as Deng catches up to him...
DENG: What are you doing?
SAM: They ain't sleepin out here. Tell em they're comin inside. (to children on the ground) Ya'll get up... let's go... And Sam starts to move up the block further, wanting to gather up more children, but Deng stops him...
DENG: Sam, there are too many... And he looks up the street and we see more children here than we thought... hundreds of young kids huddled on the streets...
DENG (CONT'D): ... you can't help them all. Sam knows he's right. A moment here as he looks to the children he's gathered, staring up at him...
SAM: I can help these here.
DENG: Settle down... it's alright... you can sleep here till morning... -- and they begin to settle onto the floor... and now we notice a particular BOY in this group... maybe 8 years old... wearing bright GREEN SHORTS... and we watch as he and his SISTER move to a corner of the room and unroll their mats... ... and eventually Sam turns off the lamp and we stay here in the dark... Sam on his cot, listening to these 12 little children breathing... their shifting bodies on the floor trying to get comfortable... and then...
DENG: The LRA attacked a village last night. Sam looking up to him...
DENG (CONT'D): You said you wanted to see. Sam sits up, looks around the hotel room and we see that it's empty... the children vanished... only a small, handmade toy on the ground which has been left behind.
36: ... and we notice -- Sam notices -- the little boy in the GREEN SHORTS, walking hand-in-hand with his sister, their faces quiet masks of fear as they move closer to their home.
37: tears streaming down his face... saying something we can't hear, but it's a promise... to God... To save the children of Sudan.
PAIGE: You see any tigers over there?
SAM: Naw, didn't see no tigers.
PAIGE: But they do have them over in Africa.
SAM: So I hear, but not where I was.
PAIGE: Sure am glad you're home.
SAM: Me too, bug.
PAIGE: I'm thinkin of a plane...
SAM: It's late, you better get to bed... And he grabs her and carries her into the bedroom, plops her onto the bed...
PAIGE: C'mon, plane... I'm thinkin of a plane... Sam giving in, playing their little game as she gets under the covers...
SAM: You said plane, I'm thinkin of a train...
PAIGE: You said train, I'm thinkin of a brain.
SAM: You said brain, I'm thinkin of a...
PAIGE: Gotcha!
SAM: Ok, you got me.
PAIGE: You coulda said drain, or mane... like horse's hair. Sam bending over, kissing her forehead...
SAM: Sweet dreams, bug.
LYNN: You comin to bed?
SAM: In a bit
LYNN: You ok?
SAM: Just a long flight. She senses more but knows this man well enough not to push... and so she simply turns away.
39: And he steps into the yard... walking along the side of the house... just moving... trying to shed this feeling like snakeskin... ... and he comes to something on the ground which stops him dead in his tracks... something we don't see yet... and slowly he reaches down and picks up... A LITTLE DOLL. One of Paige's toys. Soiled and faded and left in the dirt. And we watch him holding this forgotten doll... and what we see on his face ain't pretty... his world collapsing out from under him... trying to keep rein on his emotions... a battle he's losing.
LYNN: Baby, whatcha doin? He looks up...
SAM: Makin plans.
LYNN: You been to bed yet? He gathers up a couple of the papers, moves to her.
SAM: I had a vision last night, Lynn. Crazy as it sounds, God spoke to me... He hands her a sheet of paper -- CU to see it's a crude drawing of building.
SAM (CONT'D): I'm gonna build a church.
LYNN: A church?
SAM: Right across the street. Not like Faith United or Calvary Fellowship. Place that ain't gonna turn you away if you a drug addict or a prostitute or whatever. Place for sinners, just like me, who wanna hear the word of God. Lynn studying him, trying to judge how serious he is here. And Sam looking back at her, his eyes like we haven't seen them before. Sparkling.
LYNN: How we gonna pay for a church, Sam?
SAM: We got money in the bank. Business is good. Besides, I own a construction company...
(SMILING): I'm gonna give us one heck of a good deal on the build. She smiles, shaking her head, catching his enthusiasm...
LYNN: Yer crazy.
SAM: `Lil bit.
LYNN: What's that? He hands her the other paper -- CU to see it's a another drawing.
SAM: That's the orphanage I wanna build. In Sudan.
SAM: That's me. The Biker extends his hand, they shake.
BIKER: Hey bro, Ben Hobbes, knew each other long time ago.
SAM: Yeah, Ben, how you doin?
DAUGHTER: Daddy, I'm gonna go.
BIKER: OK, sweetie... She runs off.
BIKER (CONT'D): Goddamn, they grow up quick, don't they?
SAM: Sure do.
BIKER: Hey, nuthin fer nuthin, Sam, but rumor has it you was puttin up a chapel over there in Central City.
SAM: That's right. Gonna minister to anybody who's lookin for The Lord.
BIKER: That's good, man. Maybe you can do somethin bout your old friend, Donnie.
SAM: What about em?
BIKER: He ain't doin so good, bro. But hey, good seein ya' man.
SAM: I'm here for that boy right there. You gonna get in the way a that? A TENSE BEAT -- not sure how this is gonna go -- and then the CRACKHEAD shakes his head "no"
DONNIE: I can't do this.
SAM: Look at me. God don't make trash, boy. Now he ain't givin up on you, so don't give up on him, you hear me? And somehow Donnie finds strength in his words, and in Sam's hand touching his head, and he nods.
DONNIE: Welcome to Shekinah Fellowship Church.
LYNN: It's five-til and he still ain't here. Sam hearing this, moving to his feet, toweling off his hands.
SAM: You call him?
(LYNN NODS): Try him again. Lynn exits and Daisy steps forward, shuts the door behind her. Just she and Sam here alone now.
DAISY: You like this dress, Sam?
SAM: What, mom?
DAISY: You ain't never seen this one. I bought it a long time ago. Been keepin it for a special occasion.
SAM: It's nice.
DAISY: I never told you this but when I was pregnant with you, now this was way back, probably 1960, when yer daddy and I was still in Grand Rapids, a Pastor prophesied over me. Pulled me right up on stage and laid his hands on my belly and told me I was gonna have a Preacher for a son. (smiling at the thought) Yer daddy and I were so proud. I remember we went home and neither of us could sleep all night. Just laid there and talked bout you, bout what was comin.
SAM: I just built a church. I ain't no preacher.
DAISY: Yes you are. You were born to it. Just took you a little ways to get here.
SAM: (to the band) Thank you, Tommy. You boys is soundin pretty good up here. Sam turning to the crowd, clearing his throat, clearly nervous.
SAM (CONT'D): I wanna thank ya'll for comin out for the first day of worship here at Shekinah Fellowship Church. Some applause. Lynn and Paige sitting with Daisy who is beaming.
SAM (CONT'D): The guest preacher we had booked today ain't shown up... so I thought I'd say a word or two. An awkward beat...
SAM (CONT'D): Lotta yous been wonderin what made me wanna build this here church. Seein as I ain't the best seed in the bunch I can understand that. A beat, considering what to say... and he begins...
SAM (CONT'D): Buncha years ago I was runnin from some bad fellas in the woods over there by Cleary. Those old boys was comin after me hard and I reached in my bag lookin for my old shotgun but it was gone. My momma had took it out when I wasn't lookin and put this bible in there instead... Sam holding up a worn bible, and we start to notice something here... a transformation happening in this man as he speaks to these people. His nervousness falling away and a natural charisma taking over...
SAM (CONT'D): Well I figured I was done for, so I sat down under an old tree with this useless book and I waited... And we see the congregation hanging on his every word, identifying with this man standing before them. One of their own.
SAM (CONT'D): ... and then the strangest thing happened. Them boys ran right on past me. Didn't even see me sittin there. Now the way I figure it, things would have turned out pretty different if I had pulled out that shotgun instead of this here Bible. And that's probably the first time I can remember God savin my butt.
(BEAT): God... and my momma. Some laughter and applause...
SAM (CONT'D): Figure least I could do was build em both this church. And the congregation responds with a Hallelujah!
SAM: Be back soon as I can.
PAIGE: You're gonna miss my play.
SAM: Have momma videotape it for me, k? Now I gotta git. Lynn pulling Paige off, kissing Sam on the lips.
LYNN: Call us when you can.
SAM: I will. Sam turning to Donnie, and we see he's back to the hulking man he once was.
SAM (CONT'D): You watch out for em while I'm gone, ya hear?
DONNIE: That's done, buddy. Sam winks, slaps Donnie on the shoulder, as we --
DENG: You came all this way to bring us new boots?
SAM: Right here, stop the truck!
DENG: Sam, wait... But he's not listening, moving through the scrub to a small clearing... walking around...
DENG (CONT'D): It is not safe here. Sam kneeling down, picking up a handful of red dirt, letting it trickle through his fingers...
SAM: This is it...
ADMINISTRATOR: This is not a good idea.
SAM: I think it's a heckuva good idea.
ADMINISTRATOR: It would be better further south. Closer to Kampala.
SAM: If I wanted to be closer to Kampala, I'd be closer to Kampala. I wanna be right here... Sam pointing to the map. The Administrator turning to Deng --
ADMINISTRATOR: He should not be this far north.
SAM: What are you sayin?
ADMINISTRATOR: The villages in this area are very remote, Mr. Childers. There is nothing there.
SAM: Then it seems to me them people need help the most.
ADMINISTRATOR: (to Deng, Arabic) He will be killed.
SAM: Talk to me. The Administrator turning to him, laying it out simply --
ADMINISTRATOR: This is in the war zone, Mr. Childers. The LRA will kill you here.
SAM: I don't think you understand me, so lemme make it real clear to ya. I didn't pick this land -- God did.
DENG: Sam... this is Betty. She is from the village of Kotido. A few miles from here.
SAM: Good to meet you Betty. Betty, no reaction. Just the incessant crying of the children in the b.g.
DENG: She is knowing that you need someone to run the orphanage.
SAM: I'm lookin for somebody who can keep the place in order. Make sure things is taken care of when I'm away.
DENG: She can do this.
SAM: She's gonna have to take care of the children too, make sure they're fed, fix em when they're sick. Can she do that? Betty hears this, turns to the crying children and softly says --
BETTY: Quiet now. -- and instantly their crying stops.
SAM: Tell her she's hired.
BETTY: You two share a blanket and tomorrow we will find another.
ROSE: Shhhh, it's time to shut your eyes... And we see Sam here too, doing what he can, tucking in a few of the kids, starting to make a connection with these children.
SAM: You know what's funny? In English your name means "darn it."
DENG: What is this `darn it?'
SAM: Deng. It means `shucks.' You know, like you stub your toe and you go "ahhhhh, deng!" Get it?
DENG: This is not funny. In my language, in Arabic, names are very important. They tell you everything about a man.
(BECOMING HEATED): Your name proceeds you wherever you go. You are Sam. This is how you are known. In my language this means something. Sam feeling terrible, realizes he's offended him.
SAM: I'm sorry, buddy. It was just a joke. Quiet, awkward, just the two of them sitting here quietly for a long beat. Finally...
SAM (CONT'D): What does Sam mean in Arabic?
DENG: Small penis. And Deng smiles brightly. Sam realizing he's been played. And Deng starts to LAUGH. A deep, guttural, infectious laugh. Sam joining him, and we sense that at this moment these two have become friends. And gradually their laughter subsides, and it's quiet again.
SAM: Can I ask you a question?
DENG: Of course.
SAM: You believe in God? Deng considering this for a beat, and then...
DENG: I was raised to believe there was a God in heaven.
(MORE): But it is impossible to live here, to see what I have seen, and not turn your back on him.
SAM: Maybe you'll invite him in again one day.
DENG: I don't think so.
SOLDIER #2: That was a mistake...
SOLDIER #3: Where?
SOLDIER #2: Right here... your third "house" is open...
52: Soldier #3 reacting to his mistake as --
NEW ANGLE: -- Sam hustling across the compound -- joining Deng and another soldier behind a makeshift shed --
SAM: How many are there?
DENG: Two squads...
(INDICATING): There -- and there. Sam peering around the corner -- sees MUZZLE FLASHES in the blackness -- maybe 15 or 20 rebels moving through the bush like specters -- flanking the compound --
SAM: Where are your men?
DENG: I don't know. Sam looking around, realizing the rest of the SPLA soldiers are scattered throughout the compound firing randomly into the dark.
SAM: They're gonna pick us off like this! Sam, split-second decision here -- and he starts to sprint across the compound to --
BETTY: Stay down! -- stay down! --
ROSE: We are protected! -- Sam bursting through the door --
SAM: -- Betty! Get em to the church right now!
(ARABIC): Quickly.
(ENGLISH): Understand?! -- Betty nodding as Sam rushes out --
SAM: Get yer men back to the church! That's our best shot! I'll cover you... And Sam starts to open up the AK -- laying down a curtain of suppression fire as Deng shouts to his men --
DENG: To the church! -- -- and they start to fall back to the center of the orphanage --
SAM: (meaning the children) Put em in the middle! Betty and the other woman do exactly that -- they move the children into a tight group in the center of the room.
BETTY: Down here! -- in the center! -- all of you! -- stay down!
DENG: Four on the right!
NINETEEN: There are too many!
SAM: Just keep firin! Sam starting to open up with his AK -- Krakakakakakak! -- spent shells showering down around the children huddled in the middle of the room.
LYNN: Hello?
SAM: It's me.
LYNN: You ok?
SAM: They burned it to the ground. All of it. Ain't nuthin left.
LYNN: Where are you?
SAM: Nimule...
SAM: Yeah.
SAM: I can hear you.
LYNN: Then quit feelin sorry for yerself. Them children have had their whole lives burned to the ground and worse. How many of them you see givin up?
SAM: Cut it all down... so they got nowhere to hide... -- Sam, Deng and the crew of village men digging post holes around the perimeter of the orphanage...
VILLAGE MAN 1: How far?
DENG: All the way around... -- The men sinking metal beams into the holes with cement, then surrounding the compound with heavy gage CHAINLINK FENCE. -- New DORMS being built from brick. An INFIRMARY. A MESS HALL. SOLDIER'S BARRACKS. And finally, Sam laying the last brick on the chapel in the center of the compound. Completing it.
SAM: Come on in... The door opens and we see Deng.
DENG: Preacher, you need to come see this.
SAM: What's goin on?
DENG: The Acholi people were farmers before they were driven from their ancestral homeland. Each year they blessed the soil before a planting. And now the women begin to move in unison... singing an ancient Acholi song as one of the older orphan boys beats a small drum in accompaniment...
DENG (CONT'D): They are saying that fire brings strength and ashes abundance... The women continuing their dance... moving in a tight circle and stomping their feet as they sing...
DENG (CONT'D): ... when the land burns, the next year the soil produces more... And now Betty peels away from the group and approaches Sam, talking to him directly in Arabic...
BETTY: The children are your fields...
DENG: ... she says you are a farmer and these children are your crops...
59: Sam looking to the 80 little orphans watching this from the side... and now Betty bends down and scoops up a bit of ashen earth and runs her finger across his forehead, blessing him...
BETTY: ... and this ground will grow them tall.
DENG: ... and this ground is richer now and they will grow stronger because of it. OFF SAM standing here with his ashen face, staring at these people in front of him -- his African family.
SAM: What is she saying?
BETTY: She is asking what she did wrong? Sam taking Alice's hand in his... very slowly her beautiful eyes open and she sees him... and says something in Arabic...
BETTY (CONT'D): She is asking if you are `The Preacher.'
SAM: Tell her she's gonna be ok. Betty translates and Alice smiles faintly... and now one of the other camp women comes over and Sam steps back so they can work...
SAM: Where did they find em?
DENG: Their village was hit out Adjumani. Off Sam, hearing this, we...
DENG: Sam...
DENG: Where are you going?
SAM: Adjumani.
DENG: Sam, please wait...
SAM: I ain't waitin. You wanna see what waitin gets ya? Take a look in that buildin over there... Sam reaching the SUV and starting to gear up...
61: FADE UP the plaintive wail of an Acholi WAR SONG... haunting... ethereal... and then a chorus of voices rising up... taking us to...
WILLIAM: It's the white preacher! The other boys reacting, this means something to them. And now one of the ADULT REBEL turns to the children...
ADULT REBEL: And he pops up and returns fire, but the boys don't move.
SAM: No shot! There are children behind the truck! Marco hears this, ditches the RPG and picks up his AK.
SAM (CONT'D): Cover me! Marco laying down suppression fire as Sam sprints across the road -- advancing on the transport truck -- firing his AK from the hip -- bullets zinging past him -- he dives behind a berm and finds himself next to Deng. Neither man says a word as they jam fresh mags into their AK's, gunfire erupting all around them.
ADULT REBEL: Fight you cowards!!! But William and the other boys don't move, and the Adult Rebel keeps shooting until his mag clicks empty. He looks around and sees an RPG LAUNCHER on the ground, picks it up, arms it --
DENG: Why don't you just go home?
SAM: What?
DENG: This is not your war.
SAM: You leavin? Deng shakes his head --
SAM (CONT'D): Well then, I ain't leavin neither... Sam chambers a round, pivots around the berm as --
64: it's William, hands held open in surrender, staring curiously at this strange white man laying in the dirt... and now Deng and Marco appear next to Sam and help him to his feet. And we see the battle is over. The remaining child soldiers slowly emerging from behind the LRA truck... laying down their weapons and walking toward Sam... joining William... staring at this white man in front of them... ... William reaches into his pocket and... ... Deng and Marco REACT -- lifting their AK's -- "Don't move! Don't move!" -- but the boy only pulls out a FADED PHOTOGRAPH... the one he grabbed just before his capture... a picture of him and his older brother... standing next to each other smiling.
WILLIAM: Have you seen my brother?
WILLIAM: ... Where are you from?
ANTHONY: Jabal.
WILLIAM: Were you with the rebels? Anthony nods. William pulls out his photograph.
WILLIAM (CONT'D): Did you know my brother? He was called Christopher. Anthony studying the photograph...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): He has a funny left eye. It looks the other way sometimes. Do you remember him?
ANTHONY: No. William folding up the photograph, getting up, moving to another little boy a few feet away... kneeling next to him... and so he continues...
WILLIAM: I am William. Were you with the rebels?
SAM: Mornin, buddy. William, no response. Just staring up at him.
SAM (CONT'D): Ain't you gonna say nuthin? William, nothing.
SAM (CONT'D): Ok then. And Sam walks across the compound followed by William a few paces behind... and he reaches Deng, Betty, Nineteen, and a few of the other volunteers waiting by the truck...
DENG: Looks like you've got yourself a bodyguard.
SAM: Guess I do. Sam tosses his bag into the back, says goodbye to everyone...
SAM (CONT'D): Take care of things while I'm gone, ok?
DENG: I will, Preacher. They shake hands and Sam gets into the truck... and we see William already here, sitting in the backseat.
SAM: You can't come with me, buddy.
DENG: (to William, Arabic) Get out of there. But William isn't moving...
DENG (CONT'D): Come on! -- out! -- ... and finally Deng reaches in and grabs him... tries to pull him out but he fights back... yelling as Deng drags him out of the truck...
SAM: ... he's not interested in your good thoughts... your good intentions... he wants your hands... your backs... your sweat... your blood to pour into the foundation that will build up his kingdom! Ad-libbed SHOUTS and PRAISE... and now we see Lynn, Daisy, Donnie and Paige in the congregation listening... as we go --
LYNN: We started daycare last month. Monday thru Friday from 8 to 2... Sundays after first worship for a few hours if anybody needs it. How you doin, Sue?
VOLUNTEER: Good. Hey Pastor.
SAM: Sue. Lynn pulling the door closed and they continue... moving down a set of stairs to the basement where we see children and parents... some of them playing ping-pong and air hockey... others in a corner rehearsing for a Christmas play...
SAM (CONT'D): Been thinkin we need to put up a playground. Swings. Some things the kids can climb on.
LYNN: We can't build anymore. Not for awhile.
SAM: You said Sundays has been full.
LYNN: Turn outs been good, but that don't mean people is givin money.
(MORE): Economy is in trouble, construction business is slow. Times is tight.
SAM: Be good for them kids, Lynn.
LYNN: They got the playground over in Cairnbrook. And they can play at the school on weekends if they want Sam turning to her --
SAM: Not talking bout here. Talkin about the orphange. Lynn catching up to him now, realizing his head is still back in Africa.
DONNIE: What'cha workin on, buddy?
SAM: Trouble with the push rods I think. She's runnin kinda rough.
DONNIE: Shoulda kept that mild in there `stead a buildin up a hot rod. Let's see whatcha got here... Donnie moving next to him, working on the bike...
DONNIE (CONT'D): ... never had these problems when we was runnin solid lifters, huh?
SAM: Used to fix them old shovelheads on the side of the road with a buckknife and a wire hanger.
DONNIE: Remember that year we went to the Freakers Ball? Sam smiling...
SAM: I think that old `78 broke down five times on that trip.
DONNIE: Sounds about right. Shoot, we had more fun tryin to get there than when we finally did. Sam and Donnie share a laugh.
DONNIE (CONT'D): Can I talk to you about somethin?
SAM: Yep.
DONNIE: I'm glad I'm walkin with the Lord and all, but sometimes I ain't sure I'm gonna be able to do what he wants me to do.
SAM: The Lord don't ask for nuthin you can't deliver, buddy. And yer one tough ole boy.
DONNIE: Sometimes I ain't so sure how tough I am. And we see in Donnie's eyes just how troubled he is.
SAM: Why don't we pray together then... And they both take a knee, bowing their heads as Sam continues...
SAM (CONT'D): Our gracious Heavenly Father, bless us with the strength to carry on in your name. And grant us, in our darkest hours, the understandin that you are always by our side. And we leave these two men, their heads bowed in quiet supplication, next to this Harley, praying for strength.
BILL: ... from what I heard, you built yourself one helluva church over there in Central City.
SAM: Still got a ways to go, but we're gettin there. You should come on by one of these Sundays, bring the family.
BILL: That's nice of you, but we're at Calvary now. Bit more our speed over there I think. Sam, getting down to business...
SAM: Reverand Carlton gives a mean sermon, puts me to shame. Anyway Bill, I'm here cause I wanna talk to you about what we're doin over there in Africa.
BILL: Course I know about what you're doin. Helluva thing helpin out those kids, Sam.
SAM: Thank you, but I'm gonna be straight with ya. We're hurtin for money... If we had a little bit more support from people like yourself sure would help things run a lot smoother over there. Bill feeling the rub, shaking his head...
BILL: Sam, look, everybody is feelin the pinch around here.
SAM: I hear that, but you gotta understand that them kids over there got nuthin. I mean nuthin, Bill, and I'm not asking for much.
BILL: How much you lookin for?
SAM: Five thousand dollars.
BILL: Jesus Christ, Sam! Five thousand dollars?
SAM: That keeps them doors open for another six months.
BILL: People are losin their jobs left and right round here. Tough to be askin for five thousand dollars for a buncha African children half-way around the world. Sam shifting, not giving up, coming at him another way...
SAM: You're right. We got problems right here. But with that kinda money we could feed them kids, house them kids. Bill staring at him, saying nothing, on the spot. Sam hoping that somehow he's reached this man. And finally Bill stands up...
BILL: Alright, tell you what, lemme see what I can do. Sam feeling this victory, flashing a smile, shaking Bill's hand.
SAM: Ok.
BILL: Why don't you and the family come over to the house next Sunday. We're havin a little barbeque, ok?
SAM: Sounds good.
SHANNON: Well, come on in... And they enter... Lynn smiling awkwardly, dressed in the same yellow dress we saw her in previously... her only dress... and Sam looking around this enormous room...
SHANNON (CONT'D): Ya'll must be the Childers. Welcome. I'm Shannon, Bill's ball-n-chain.
72: Smiling, a joke she loves...
LYNN: I'm Lynn, this here is Sam, our daughter Paige.
SHANNON: Good to meet you.
BILL: Glad ya'll could make it. Get on in here and meet some people... Bill ushering them deeper into the house... quick intros to a few guests as they pass... Sam, Lynn, and Paige taking it all in... starting to sense the dimensions of this massive house... the waiters in their pressed jackets offering them food... the extravagance... like nothing they've ever seen... ... Bill pulling Sam off from the crowd so it's just the two of them... taking an envelope from his jacket and handing it to him...
BILL (CONT'D): This is a little somethin for the kids, ok? What we were talking about.
SAM: Thank you, Bill.
BILL: Forget it. Now c'mon, can I get ya a mojito or somethin?
LYNN: Sam...
PAIGE: Why we leavin so soon? Shannon appearing in the doorway in the b.g., calling after...
SHANNON: Everything alright?... Lynn turning to respond, but Sam keeps her moving forward, down the driveway, past the line of parked BMW's and Mercedes to their truck at the curb...
SAM: Get in the car.
LYNN: What's wrong? As they load into the truck...
SAM: Sonuvabitch is cryin pour-mouth to me and he's livin in the damn Taj Mahal...
LYNN: Sam...
SAM: I asked him for five-thousand dollars to feed a buncha motherless babies and you know what he gave me? (taking out the check, wadding it up) Hundred and fifty bucks. That's it. Handed it to me like it was gold bouillon! Sonuvabitch spent more than that on salsa for his party.
LYNN: What are you doin?
SAM: I've had it with these people and all their bullshit about wantin to help... And he starts pulling out weapons... shotguns and assault rifles... stuffing them into an oversize gun bag...
LYNN: Sam Childers...
74: Lynn reaching for him and he grabs her wrist... tightly... staring at her with dark eyes. A flash of the "old" Sam Childers here when he says...
SAM: Stay outta my way. And for the first time in years this woman is scared. He lets go of her wrist and continues to fill the bag -- and we go --
SHOP OWNER: ... I'm sorry, twenty-five hundred is the best I can do for them gun. REVERSE to see Lynn's car parked at the curb, Sam pointing to it...
SAM: Throw in the car for five. The Shop Owner considering, as we go...
NINETEEN: It's Garang! -- It's Garang! -- Palpable excitement ripples through the compound... Sam's soldiers grabbing their weapons and forming a ragged line near the Suburban as it stops...
75: ... the back door to the Suburban opens and a black man, dressed in shirtsleeves and slacks, steps out. The same man we saw giving the fiery speech on the little outdoor TV in Nimule earlier -- JOHN
SAM: Who's this guy?
DENG: That's our leader.
SAM: John Garang? Deng nods as we go...
GARANG: They call you Preacher. Is this what I should call you?
SAM: Sam is fine.
GARANG: I hear what you have done for the SPLA and I am grateful.
SAM: We can thank God for his blessins.
GARANG: Yes, we can. How many children do you look after, Sam?
SAM: Couple hundred with us here. Feed another thousand a day from nearby villages. Anyone who shows up hungry gets a meal. And they continue through the camp. A few of the children running up to Garang, touching the cuff of his shirt, then sprinting away...
GARANG: What you are doing is noble, but too dangerous. I must advise you to stop risking your life in our struggle.
SAM: Until someone starts fightin for these children, I'm the one that's gonna do it.
GARANG: You are stubborn, aren't you?
SAM: As a mule. Garang smiling, an instant affinity for this man.
GARANG: You and I come from very different worlds, but we are not so dissimilar. And another child runs up to Garang, touching him, and then sprints away giggling...
GARANG (CONT'D): I founded the SPLA in order to fight for the future of Sudan because nobody else would. We fight for freedom from the government in Khartoum, for the right to vote, and for the right to worship any god one may choose. More children running up... Garang touching their heads...
GARANG (CONT'D): But most important to me is our struggle for the children. Their laughter has been lost to this country for far too long.
(BEAT): There are Peace Talks scheduled for the end of August in Naivashu. I'd like you to come as my guest.
SAM: Talkin bout peace in a room somewhere is a waste of time. You gotta go out and make it.
GARANG: You are correct, but we must fight them at every level. Part of my battle is waged in those rooms. We must talk of peace, but keep our rifles ready for war. Sam turning to him, coming to an understanding here. Realizing that both of them are warriors in the same fight.
GARANG (CONT'D): Maybe together you and I can make Sudan free once again.
77: And now we see they have arrived at the brick chapel in the middle of the compound. Garang turning to him, eyes suddenly becoming dark...
GARANG (CONT'D): There is a cost for freedom, Sam. A price for the future of these people. Some pay with their lives, others pay in different ways.
(BEAT): My only hope is that your cost is not too great.
DONNIE: You say prayers or somethin?
PAIGE: Already did.
DONNIE: Ok then, sweet dreams.
PAIGE: Ain't you gonna read me a book?
DONNIE: Ahh, Paige, you know I don't read so good.
PAIGE: Then let's play a game.
DONNIE: Ok.
PAIGE: I'm thinkin of a dog.
DONNIE: What about it?
PAIGE: Never mind, Donnie.
DONNIE: Ok.
PAIGE: Dad usually kisses me on the forehead before he leaves. You can do that.
DONNIE: Sure I can. And Donnie does just that, bends down and kisses Paige on the head...
DONNIE (CONT'D): Sweet dreams. And now we see Lynn in the hallway having just witnessed this through the cracked door, keenly feeling Sam absence in this moment.
SAM: Keep em closed! A little bit more!
BETTY: Keep your eyes closed.
ROSE: (stern, Arabic) Michael! Cover your eyes! No peeking!
SAM: ... keep comin'... The children inching forward, following his voice, until...
SAM (CONT'D): Ok, stop! Open your eyes!
BETTY: Open your eyes! And we see a hundred little eyes popping open, staring at something off screen, confused for a split second at what they're looking at. REVERSE to see a PLAYGROUND: two or three battered swingsets, a few see-saws, and a jungle gym soldered out of metal pipe. And the kids SPRINTING for it, climbing all over the jungle gym like ants... hitting the swing-sets... and then we hear it... something we realize we haven't heard in this place before... the sound of laughter... children losing themselves in play. Innocence flooding back.
79: And now we see Nineteen, A.J. and two other SPLA soldiers standing around a BUNNY BOUNCER... staring at it quizzically... talking in Arabic, trying to decide what this thing is... and then A.J., the bravest, slings his AK onto his back and carefully straddles the bouncer... pulling up his long legs and resting his feet on the pegs... And he begins to bob back and forth... holding onto the bunny's ears with his big hands... the other soldiers starting to laugh as he bobs faster... and then we see A.J's smile... a million watt smile on this guy... the first time he's played like this since he was a boy.
DENG: Some of the child soldiers say there is a bounty on your life. That Kony is offering money for your nose and ears. Sam, no reaction, just keeps swinging the children...
DENG (CONT'D): I'd like to assign a few more men to you during the day.
SAM: He ain't the first old-boy who wanted to see my head hanging on his wall. Keep yer soldiers where they're needed. I can take care of myself. Deng clearly worried for his friend, but doesn't press the issue. And now Sam notices William off from the group, sitting on the ground by himself, not playing.
SAM (CONT'D): He said anything yet?
DENG: All we know is that his family was killed and that he and his brother were taken into the LRA.
SAM: Where's the brother?
DENG: Nobody knows.
NEW ANGLE: Sam approaching William, kneeling down next to him.
SAM: Hey buddy, you don't wanna play with the other kids? William, no response.
SAM (CONT'D): You know sometimes it helps to tell somebody what you got locked up inside, know what I mean? William, no reaction whatsoever. Something dawning on Sam in this moment...
SAM (CONT'D): You have no idea what I'm sayin, do you? William just stares back at him and Sam realizes he doesn't speak English. And they both just sit here for a moment, silent, staring at the children playing on the playground. And then Sam, feeling the need to unburden himself, begins to talk...
SAM (CONT'D): I done a lotta things I ain't proud of. Hurt a lotta people. Truth is, helpin you kids is about the only good thing I ever done in this life. William watching him quietly.
SAM (CONT'D): But I'm scared. Scared one day I'll close my eyes to all this and make it somebody else's problem.
(BEAT): Just like everybody else in this world. And he stops and it's silent between them again. William just sitting there quietly. And Sam looks up to the sky... feeling his life washing over him... his burden... this fear.
SAM: I don't see nuthin. Deng checking a handheld GPS unit --
DENG: This is it.
81: Sam looking out the window, sees movement at the bottom of the ravine.
SAM: Hold on... ... and we see what he sees -- CHILDREN hiding behind a bush.
SAM (CONT'D): I got em.
SAM: Deng, tell camp we're comin back with two. A.J., Nineteen -- go get them kids. A.J. and Nineteen move off as Sam pops the rear hatch on the SUV and pulls out a MEDICAL BAG.
SAM: What's he sayin?
DENG: A.J. is dead.
SAM: Shit.
(BEAT): Tell him to stay where he is. Don't move.
DENG: (yelling to Nineteen, Arabic) Don't move!
SAM: Ask him if he saw the shooter.
DENG: (yelling to Nineteen, Arabic) Did you see him?! Nineteen responds.
DENG (CONT'D): He did not see. SNIPER POV -- and we see A.J.'s lifeless body lying by the children... and the SUV... and then part of Sam's head peering from behind the truck --
SAM: You got `em?
DENG: Yes. He's on the ridge... just below that outcropping.
SAM: Can you reach the Browning? Deng opening the rear door and reaching inside the truck... pulling out a long barrel HUNTING RIFLE as...
SAM (CONT'D): Need you boys to cover me on three, alright? Put everything you got into that rock up there. SNIPER POV -- locked on the SUV when suddenly -- Deng and Marco pivot around the truck and start firing -- bullets popping all around and the sniper drops for cover as --
DENG: (calling out to Sam) I think you got him!
DENG: It is ok. You can get up now.
84: But the boys don't move... and Deng reaches down, pulls them to their feet and we see that their ankles are chained to a post which has been buried in the ground.
DENG (CONT'D): Sam. Sam joins Deng, sees the chains.
DENG (CONT'D): LRA wanted us here. Sam realizing that these children were used as bait -- for him.
SAM: Hello?
DONNIE: Sam, it's me.
SAM: Everybody ok?
DONNIE: Oh yeah, everybody's just fine. I was just callin to say `hey' is all.
SAM: How're the girls?
DONNIE: They're good. Paige cooked us all dinner the other night. Chocolate-chip pancakes.
SAM: By herself, huh?
DONNIE: Yep. I helped her with the stove is all. She did everything else. Pretty good too. And now we see Donnie's DOPE WORKS sitting on the table in front of him. He's using again.
DONNIE (CONT'D): How's it goin over there?
SAM: Goin fine.
DONNIE: Hey, maybe I'll come with you one of these trips. I'd like to get outta here for a spell. See what it's like.
SAM: Sounds good. And it's silent between them... both of these men lost in their own worries for a moment... and then...
DONNIE: Ask you a question?
SAM'S VOICE: Yeah.
DONNIE'S VOICE: You think God will forgive us for the things we've done? And we're watching Sam, this question hitting him like a freight train. Unable to answer.
AGNETE: In the camps. The children. They say there is a white preacher who hunts the LRA. This place does not need more killing, Mr. Childers.
SAM: I'm just tryin to help these people. Same as you.
AGNETE: War upon war does not fix what is broken here. The history of this country is filled with righteous killers. That is how it always begins, with men thinking they are killing for the right reasons.
SAM: I got a 200 kids who are gonna sleep safe tonight and wake up tomorrow mornin to a bowl of hot food. Right or not, that's all the reason I need.
AGNETE: And what about the rumors I have heard about you supplying weapons to the SPLA? Sam turning to her, face-to-face, starting to get pissed...
SAM: You fight the evil in this place your way, I'll fight it mine.
AGNETE: Do not delude yourself, Mr. Childers. You're a mercenary, not a humanitarian. Sam, finished with this conversation, slams the lift-gate closed on the truck and starts to climb in...
AGNETE (CONT'D): They say you are doing good. That you have special powers. That you are protected by angels and cannot be killed by bullets. Sam looking at her and there's a warning in what she says next... about violence corrupting men... consuming them...
AGNETE (CONT'D): They said the same thing about Kony in the beginning.
ORPHAN #1: Look at their shoes...
ORPHAN #2: They look silly...
ORPHAN #1: This is how Americans dance?
ORPHAN #2: Their dancing is terrible! The children laughing hysterically... and for an instant Sam is swept out of his melancholy by their sweet enjoyment... ... and then Sam sees Deng and Nineteen approaching quickly...
SAM: What's goin on?
DENG: An LRA convoy has moved north over the border. They're heading for Ed Duim.
SAM: That's where they sell em on the black market, ain't it?
DENG: Look... Far ahead we see three sets of HEADLIGHTS coming towards us on the road -- just bouncing white dots on the horizon -- and silently they begin to check their mags and weapons -- preparing for battle -- -- and the headlights get closer -- Deng not slowing down -- and we realize we are on a collision course with this convoy -- and finally we see MUZZLE FLASHES in the distance -- and --
SAM: Let's go! Sam and Nineteen leaning through the open windows as Deng drives -- leveling their AK's and firing --
89: ... Sam coming out of the blackness with his AK leveled... moving toward the flaming wreckage of the caravan... Deng, Nineteen, and Marco moving to each rebel body... making sure they're dead.
NINETEEN: Clear! Sam and Deng moving to the back of the Transport Truck...
SAM: Bring me a flashlight. Marco hustling up with a spotlight -- Sam switching it on as Deng rips the canvas back and we see --
MARCO: The front axle is broken... this truck won't drive.
SAM: What'd he say?
DENG: The truck is too damaged to move. (meaning the children) We don't have room for them all, Preacher. The implication of this hitting Sam, his mind reeling, turning to Nineteen...
SAM: Bring our truck up here and shine them lights on us.
(TO DENG): Pull everyone of them kids outta there.
DENG: (to soldiers, Arabic) Bring the children out... Deng and Marco helping the children out... one-by-one... untying them...
SAM: Put em right here... real easy...
DENG: Put them together here... gently...
90: And now Nineteen pulls up in the SUV, lighting up the children.
DENG (CONT'D): What are you doing?
SAM: We're takin the ones that ain't gonna make it through the night. Come back for the others later. And Sam moves to the first child in the group -- a little girl -- reaching out to her but she pulls back.
SAM (CONT'D): Tell her I'm not gonna hurt her.
DENG: It's ok... he will not hurt you... And slowly the little girl steps forward... and Sam gently unbuttons her shirt and begins to examine her little body... turning her around in the harsh light of the SUV's headlamps... and he finds five infected gashes on her back... whip wounds... already turning gangrene... and he gently pushes her toward Deng...
SAM: Put her in the truck. And Sam continues with the group... assessing each child's health... tenderly running his hands over their broken, starved bodies... somehow calculating which ones are worse off and pulling them out of line... ... and he reaches the last child and we see that the SUV is now PACKED with children... huddled into every available corner... 10 children in total. There's no more room.
SAM (CONT'D): Tell em we're comin back. Deng hesitating, knows the reaction he's going to get...
SAM (CONT'D): Tell em!
DENG: We will be back for you! The children become hysterical, crying, running at Sam and grabbing for him, begging to be taken.
SAM: Let's go! (to the children, holding up
TWO FINGERS): Two hours... I'll be back in two hours... Sam, Deng, and the others loading into the SUV... some of them climbing onto the roof... the only available space... the remaining children clamoring around the truck as it begins to pull away...
SAM (CONT'D): Tell em to hide. Don't come out til they see my face... Deng yelling this to the children as they drive off...
DENG: Hide until we return! ... the faint cries of the children slowly fading as they speed into the darkness.
SAM: Gas it up! We're leavin here in five!
SMOKE: Rising in a thin column a half-mile away.
CUSTOMS OFFICER: Sudan? And he looks up, studies Sam --
DONNIE: Sorry I'm late. Sixteen was all jammed up... Donnie is strung out, but Sam is too deep in his own shit to see it.
DONNIE (CONT'D): Welcome home, buddy.
BANK MANAGER: I understand what you're saying, but there's just not a lot we can do, until we pay down some of what you owe my hands are tied. REVERSE to see Sam sitting in a chair across from him, a manila folder filled with his business papers sitting on his lap.
SAM: It's just an application for a short term loan.
BANK MANAGER: Sam, we already took out a second on your home.
SAM: It's only 90 days.
BANK MANAGER: You're completely leveraged.
SAM: I only got one truck over there, John. I need the money to buy a second vehicle. Sam opens a manilla folder and pulls out a photo of a truck for sale.
SAM: It's important. Now, there's one in Kampala I can probably get for twenty- one...
BANK MANAGER: (cutting him off) Sam, we know what you're doing over there in Africa and we support it but ... Sam leans over the desk and sets another photograph down in front of him -- and we see it's a gruesome photograph of a mutilated boy...
SAM: I want you to look at this. See that? Twelve year old boy had both his arms cut off by LRA... An employee approaches the bank manager with something to sign, looks down at the photos. The Bank Manager becoming uncomfortable.
BANK MANAGER: Sam... It's not necessary.
94: Sam pulls out another photograph and sets it in front of the Bank Manager -- this one even more gruesome...
SAM: Look at this John, when we found this little girl her breasts had been hacked off... Bank Manager not looking at the photograph...
BANK MANAGER: Sam, this isn't necessary...
SAM: Look at her. Look at this girl. Bank Manager glancing at the photograph then looking away...
SAM (CONT'D): Now I ain't in here askin fer money fer a hot tub or vacation or somethin like that. I'm askin for an extra vehicle so I can save some children. You understand that?
BANK MANAGER: I do, but...
SAM: But nuthin. I need you to open yer little book there and do whatever you need to do to get me that loan...
BANK MANAGER: Sam, You need to calm down...
SAM: Don't tell me to calm down! Look at those pictures! -- Look at em, John -- And he slams the desk with his open hand, taking us to...
SAM: ... Open yer eyes!... Wake up!...
(BEAT): You call yerselves children of God, but you ain't. Ya'll just sheep followin him deaf, dumb, and blind...
(AMPED-UP): But God don't want sheep. He wants wolves to fight his fight. Men and women with teeth to tear at the evil that's out there... The congregation whipped into a frenzy. A few of them jumping to their feet, shouting praise...
SAM: The congregation responding, "Amen!"
PAIGE: Mary Strauss and them is havin dinner at The Chimney.
LYNN: Who's her date?
PAIGE'S FRIEND: Tony Wilks.
LYNN: I thought Tony Wilkes was goin with Patty Hobbes' daughter.
PAIGE: They broke up last month. And now we see Sam off from the group, absently watching the TV in an adjoining room... and a NEWS REPORT begins... a PICTURE OF JOHN GARANG flashing on the screen... Sam moving closer to the set so he can hear --
TV NEWSCASTER: ... Sudanese opposition leader John Garang has been killed in a helicopter crash according to a statement released by the Sudanese Government in Khartoum today. Sam going completely still...
PAIGE (CONT'D): What do you think about us gettin a limo for next weekend? Wouldn't be too expensive since there'd be six of us. Sam lost here for a moment...
PAIGE (CONT'D): Hel-lo? Earth to Dad? What do you think?
LYNN: Honey, you ok?
DONNIE: Heck, why don't I just drive ya'll?
PAIGE: We ain't crammin in the back of your Caprice.
DONNIE: Ya'll could fit in there easy.
PAIGE: We got dresses, Donnie! We'll get all wrinkled! Plus it smells in there.
DONNIE: I can get some freshener, Paige, that ain't no problem.
PAIGE: Dad, what you think? Can we get a limo?
SAM: No.
PAIGE: Dad. Please. Patty and them is gettin one.
SAM: You ain't rentin no limo to Pittsburgh.
LYNN: We could probably get us a deal through one of Tom Hickey's boys. Between the six of them it wouldn't cost too much.
SAM: Nobody's spendin money on no friggin limousine.
PAIGE: But dad... Sam snapping, FLASHING WITH RAGE --
SAM: Quiet. Nobody moving. Completely still. And then...
LYNN: We're just talkin bout it, honey...
SAM: Too much talk in this house. I got mouths to feed and you're talkin bout pissing money away on a limo.
PAIGE: It's my formal, dad.
SAM: I don't give a shit what it is! You ain't gettin no limo, end of story. Tears welling up in Paige's eyes, anger, hurt, wanting to lash out at him somehow. And what she says next she's felt her whole life...
PAIGE: You love them black babies more than you love me.
LYNN: Sam... Donnie instinctively grabbing his arm, protective...
DONNIE: Hey... And Sam spins -- gets in his face -- eyes dark and threatening --
SAM: What the hell you think you're doin, boy?
LYNN: Honey...
DONNIE: Take it easy, buddy.
SAM: Don't tell me to take it easy in my own fuckin house... Sam and Donnie toe-to-toe and the threat of serious violence here. Tension like a hair trigger.
SAM (CONT'D): That ain't your wife and this ain't your family. You nuthin but a stray fuckin dog round here, boy.
DONNIE: You don't mean that...
SAM: Hell I don't. Now you get the fuck outta here fore I put yer head through that wall. Donnie standing here, hurt... looking to Lynn to make sure she's alright and she nods for him to go... and he turns and walks out. Paige bursting into tears and running out of the room.
100: Sam turns to find a burly looking BIKER standing next to him smiling.
BIKER: Yep, you him. I seen your face in the papers few years ago. Call you the Machinegun Preacher, right? Sam nods.
BIKER (CONT'D): (to his buddies) Told you this is the guy.
(TO SAM): Hot damn, I knew it! Papers was talkin bout how you was like some kinda African Rambo or somethin, right?
SAM: You don't mind, I'd like to just sit here right now.
BIKER: You still helpin them niggers over there? Sam bristling...
BIKER (CONT'D): The way I figure it, the reason you so interested in helpin them porch monkeys is cause you probably throwin it in them nigger bitches, ain't ya? The Biker smiles a nasty, malicious smile. His buddies moving next to him now... and we see a quiet storm brewing in Sam...
BIKER (CONT'D): Am I right? You a nigger fucker, boy? A moment here -- Sam staring at the Biker with a look we've come to know -- and -- CRACKKKK! -- Sam HEAD-BUTTS the Biker's face and a sudden, violent brawl breaks out -- Bikers swinging cue sticks -- Sam wading into the crew -- swinging wild -- taking the Biker down and stomping on his face -- bloody -- murderous -- and then --
LYNN: You're gonna sit there and you're gonna lemme talk. BEAT. Sam says nothing.
LYNN (CONT'D): I've always believed in you. I trusted you, trusted the Lord, and did what I could so you could follow your dream.
(BEAT): But I ain't willin to lose you to what you're doin over there. Ain't gonna just stand by and watch you get swallowed up by it. She looks to him and we see she has tears in her eyes...
LYNN (CONT'D): I know you're all them kids got, but you're all we got too. Paige needs her father. I need my husband.
RECORDED MESSAGE: This here's Sam. You know what to do.
DONNIE: Hey buddy, it's Donnie. Shoot, I was hopin' you was there... Donnie hesitating... doesn't hang-up... and we can feel how badly he needs to talk to somebody...
DONNIE (CONT'D): Other day I was thinkin bout when you and me was kids.
(MORE): That summer we'd go down to the quarry over in Montrose, remember that? We hooked up them ropes and spent all day swimmin and jumpin off them walls... Donnie smiling to himself, a fleeting memory, and then something dark coming over him. And now we see another man here in this shitty dope house, cooking up a spoon of black tar, juicing a needle. Donnie watching him like a hawk...
DONNIE (CONT'D): I wish you was there to pray with me, buddy.
SAM: Most of you want me to stand up here and make some sense outta this. That's why you come here today. You want me to tell you that God has his plan for all of us, and when he wants to call us back home he's gonna do it.
(BEAT): That's what you wanna hear...
(QUIETLY): That's what you wanna hear...
103: And Sam stops, unable to continue... just stares out at the congregation... at the expectant faces looking back at him, waiting... ... but he steps away from the lectern, down the steps, and walks up the aisle toward the exit... the congregation staring at him as he passes...
PAIGE: Mom, who are those men? THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD we see a FLATBED TRUCK parked next to the house and 7 or 8 MOVERS pulling heavy machinery out of the barn.
LYNN: S'cuse me, what are you doing?
MOVER: Loadin up... And she makes her way into...
LYNN: Hey, s'cuse me... And now she sees Sam going through a cabinet in the back.
LYNN (CONT'D): Sam, what's goin on? What are these men doin here?... Sam slamming the cabinet closed, moving past her without saying a word. Lynn grabbing his arm, stopping him.
LYNN (CONT'D): Where are they taking our stuff?
SAM: Ain't ours no more. Best go through and make sure they ain't takin nuthin that belongs in the house.
104: He walks off...
LYNN: Sam... And she sees two men start to dismantle the "Childers Construction Company" sign that she painted herself years ago --
LYNN (CONT'D): Hey! -- Don't touch that! --
LYNN: Sam! But he's not stopping. He reaches the house...
LYNN: Honey, I know you're hurtin. I know you're angry, but we need to talk about this...
SAM: It's all done, so save yer breath... where's the keys to the safe? Sam grabs papers from the counter and hands them to Lynn. She quickly pages through them, can't believe what she's reading.
LYNN: You sold the business for $27,000?
SAM: I need a new truck for the orphanage.
LYNN: A new truck? You sold our business for a new truck? Sam finds the Keys.
LYNN (CONT'D): That was our future, Sam. Paige's future. Lynn follows Sam into the office.
LYNN (CONT'D): Everything we have has gone to those children, Sam. There's a point when there ain't no more to give.
SAM: What's the combination? What's the fucking combination.
LYNN: Paige's birthday. Sam starts to spin the combination but hesitates...
LYNN (CONT'D): You don't know it, do you? You don't even remember your own daughter's birthday.
SAM: What are the numbers?
LYNN: You fight for everyone but us. She moves past him, spinning the combination and cranking open the vault. Sam grabbing a couple stacks of cash.
LYNN (CONT'D): You take that and we lose the house. The church. All of it.
SAM: You can make it up with the ministry.
LYNN: What ministry?! They see what you've become, Sam. They see how far gone you are. You need to get quiet with The Lord. And he looks to her...
SAM: Fuck the Lord.
LYNN: Don't say that. Don't turn yer back on him.
SAM: ... He turned his back on me! -- on Donnie! -- on every one of them kids over there.
LYNN: The good you're doin is destroyin this family.
SAM: What good have I ever done? Sam standing here, weighing something in his mind. A choice he must make here... and finally he moves past her...
LYNN: Please don't leave... But he's gone.
DENG: Welcome back. But Sam says nothing, and Deng sees that his eyes are deserted. Inevitable. And Sam moves past him without saying a word.
AGNETE: The truck grinding to a halt. The driver becoming terrified, trying to jam the truck into reverse --
AGNETE (CONT'D): No, no, no! -- don't go back --
AGNETE: You move and they'll shoot! -- calm down! -- I will talk to them. Agnete climbing out of the truck as we go --
AGNETE: It's ok -- we are a relief convoy -- Agnete and the LRA LEADER meet in the middle of the bridge --
AGNETE (CONT'D): We have only medical supplies -- non-
MILITARY --: And suddenly the LRA LEADER slams her in the gut with the butt of his rifle and she collapses. The other Rebels swarm all over the convoy, pulling out AID WORKERS and DRIVERS, forcing them onto their knees in a group.
ADULT REBEL #3: Get on your knees!... Get down!...
ADULT REBEL #4: On your knees or we will take your legs! Everyone terrified -- some of them sobbing -- Agnete looking up, trying to talk to the LRA LEADER--
AGNETE: We are only a relief convoy --
LRA LEADER: Shut your mouth!
108: -- and he SLAMS her in the face with the butt of his rifle and she goes down hard... and he rests the barrel of his rifle on the back of her head... he's going to shoot her -- and --
WILLIAM: I want to ask you something... William pulls out the photograph of his brother, holds it up...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): This is my brother. His name is Christopher. He was stolen by the rebels.
(BEAT): Do you know if he is alive? The Rebel looks at the photograph but says nothing, just shakes his head... and he looks off, his thousand yard stare inscrutable... And William simply folds the photograph back up and slips it into his pocket... but he doesn't leave... he sits here a moment longer... quietly... thinking... and then...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): Were you taken when you were young like me? The Rebel hears this and turns to him... and nods his head...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): Do you remember your parents? And we see something happening in this hardened rebel... his eyes filling with a distant memory... a sadness... and slowly he nods his head again. And we stay here with these two lost souls sitting next to each other... silent... connected by a shared history and anguish.
DENG: Do you hear that, Preacher?
SAM: What?
DENG: There is no more laughter. The children do not play here anymore. They are scared once again.
(BEAT): But now they are scared of you. Sam, no response.
DENG (CONT'D): The men do not trust you any longer to lead them into battle. They say you have a wish to die.
(BEAT): I am worried about my friend. I want to help him.
SAM: I don't need your help. And Sam turns away. After a beat Deng walks off, leaving him alone once again.
110: ... IMAGES FLASHING IN HIS HEAD... babies burned and screaming... Donnie in his coffin... and we realize we're watching something here... his world starting to cave in on him... ... and he drops against his cot... distraught... tears in his eyes and this man is breaking... and suddenly we see a gun in his hand... finger curling around the trigger as he puts it to his head... eyes closing against the world... and...
WILLIAM: I remember my parents when I sleep. I see them in my dreams sometimes. Sam looking to William... this small boy sitting above him... telling his story...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): My father was big like you. They shot him. We were so scared. Then the rebels gave me a club and told me if I didn't kill my mother they would shoot my brother and me. And William pauses in his story... lost in this memory... his face becoming a mask of pain... but no tears... there are no more tears in this young man left to be shed... and so he continues...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): I refused, but my mother told me to swing hard... that I must make her proud...
(BEAT): And so I did. I made her proud. And now William looks down at Sam... staring at this man on the ground... and he reaches out and gently touches Sam's head... a moment of tenderness for both of them... an act of love.... these two broken souls finding each another here... and William says...
WILLIAM (CONT'D): If we allow ourselves to become full of hate then they've won. We must not let them take our hearts. This is the most important thing.
111: And Sam sets the gun down and reaches out to William, pulls him into an embrace... holding him close... and we know that without a doubt this boy has saved this man's life.
PAIGE: (quiet, into phone) Hello?
SAM: Bug? You there?
PAIGE: Dad?
SAM: Yeah, it's me.
PAIGE: You ok?
SAM: I'm ok, Bug. And there's a long pause... so much to say but no words to say it... each of them holding their phones to their ears and just listening... and finally Sam says...
SAM (CONT'D): I'm thinkin of a tree... And we see tears well up in Paige's eyes when she hears this... and now we see Lynn coming around the corner, overhearing them as they begin their little game one more time...
PAIGE: You said tree... I'm thinkin of a knee. Sam smiling to himself... and we realize this man is coming back to life when he says...
SAM: You said knee, I'm thinkin of bee...
(BEAT): I love you, Bug.
PAIGE: I love you too, Daddy. Lynn hearing this and tears roll down her cheeks as we go...
WILLIAM: Excuse me...
SPLA SOLDIER #3: What is it?
WILLIAM: Is it true an LRA commander was captured last night? Soldiers nodding their heads "yes."
WILLIAM (CONT'D): Where is he being held?
SPLA SOLDIER #3: At the army base in Kisoro.
WILLIAM: Are you going there?
SPLA SOLDIER #3: Yes.
WILLIAM: Can I ride with you?
SPLA SOLDIER #3: Why do you want to go to Kisoro?
WILLIAM: I want to ask the commander something.
SPLA SOLDIER #3: No, you cannot ride with us. Wait till tomorrow and go with the women on the bus. And the soldiers turn their backs on William and he slinks away.
WILLIAM BOLTS: Sprinting through the bush -- running for his life -- rebels see him -- yelling for him to stop -- chasing him down -- shooting their rifles into the air and he hits the ground in the fetal position -- too terrified to continue -- eyes clamped shut as 4 or 5 rebels surround him -- guns pointed at his head -- caught.
SAM: Have you seen William? Betty shaking her head "no", and we see the worry on Sam's face... intuitively knows something is wrong.
DENG: Some of the soldiers said he was asking about the commander that is being held at Kismoro. Sam closing his eyes, knows instantly what William has done.
SAM: Get em on the phone, see if he's shown up at the base yet.
115: And William is dragged to a clearing next to a grouping of tents and he's kicked to the dirt... two other soldiers pinning him to the ground as a third grabs his feet and pulls off his shoes... William YELLING and now a handful of other LRA soldiers start to gather around... most of them only a few years older than him... watching as his ankles are bound together and placed on a wooden block... ... and now another soldier steps forward with an AXE... and the crowd whips into bloodlust... shouting... cheering...
SOLDIER: He ran from us.
COMMANDER: He is worth nothing with no feet. Put him with the others until tomorrow.
DENG: They have not see the boy.
SAM: Ok. Get Nineteen and Marco -- we're gonna go look for him.
DENG: It will be light soon. What do you want to do? Sam looking at a topo map on his lap...
SAM: Let's go through Maridi, see if they've seen anything.
DENG: The village outside of Akot says an LRA caravan came through there an hour ago. They were headed for Ed Duim.
THE ROOSTER-TAILS: Getting closer -- and then we see them --
NINETEEN: Sprinting through the bush -- edging around the LRA trucks -- finding a position on their weak side and locking an RPG into a launcher -- shouldering it -- aiming -- WOOOOSH! -- the missile streaking toward the second LRA jeep and --
SAM: Go! -- Go! -- Go! -- Go! And we see Deng coming out of the bush to his right -- and then Nineteen to his left -- and they charge on the remaining rebels -- Sam providing covering fire -- a curtain of lead cutting through the enemy -- and just like that it's over -- Sam waving behind him --
SAM (CONT'D): Cease fire!! -- and suddenly there's just a sick silence -- smoke rising from the shot-to-shit LRA trucks -- bodies strewn in the dirt -- the brand new orphanage truck bombed out and smoking on it's side. And Sam makes his way to the first TRANSPORT TRUCK -- Deng covering him as he rips the canvas back to see --
SAM (CONT'D): Pull em all out! C'mon, let's go!
DENG: (to Soldiers, Arabic) Take them out.
118: Soldiers start to unload the children --
SAM: Cut them loose!
DENG: (to soldier, Arabic) Cut the ropes! Sam moves to the second TRANSPORT TRUCK, rips the canvas back to
IT'S WILLIAM: Sam sees him and suddenly he knows exactly what he needs to do...
SAM: C'MON, LET'S GO!... get em out of there and line em up! -- C'MON! -- And we've seen this before... Sam going through these children... assessing their health... one by one... separating the worse off from the others... forming two group... turning to Deng and Nineteen and motioning to the smaller group (about 15 children)...
SAM (CONT'D): Load these here into the truck. Put em three deep if you have to... Deng herding the children toward the one good truck...
SAM (CONT'D): (turning to Marco, Arabic) Come with me --
NEW ANGLE: Sam and Marco moving from one dead LRA rebel to the other... rolling them onto their backs... going through their belts... pulling out extra ammo clips and grenades...
SAM (CONT'D): Get them AK's too.
(ARABIC): The machine guns. Marco swinging four or five machine guns onto his shoulder...
NEW ANGLE: At the SUV, now jammed with children. Sam talking to Nineteen, Marco and the others...
SAM (CONT'D): I need all you to climb up on that roof and keep yer eyes peeled. That road back might be hot, so be ready.
NINETEEN: What about you, Preacher?
SAM: (to the soldiers) Go on. Get outta here. The soldiers load onto the SUV and drive off, leaving Sam and Deng standing here in the middle of these 85 children. Waiting for the war that will surely come.
LEGENDS:: Joseph Kony and his Lord's Resistance Army continue their reign of terror in Sudan and Northern Uganda. Amnesty International estimates that Kony and the LRA are responsible for over 400,000 murders and more than 40,000 child abductions. These children are tortured, raped, sold into sex slavery, and forced to take part in ritualized killing by LRA commanders. The Islamic Government of Sudan continues to provide weapons and safe haven to Kony and the LRA as part of a deal to wage a proxy war against the predominately Christian South. Without pressure from the United States, this support will continue and more innocent children will be slaughtered. Now you know.
121: As of 2011, Sam Childers has rescued over 800 children from the LRA. His `Angels of East Africa Orphanage' is home to more than 300 orphans, and feeds over 1200 meals a day to neighboring villagers in need.
