SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN: TITLES APPEAR ON BLACK B.G. TITLES END and we WIDEN to reveal that the black b.g. is actually the sludge-clogged surface of the Cuyahoga River. We TILT UP from the river to reveal the city of Cleveland, then follow with a series of shots of Cleveland landmarks.
THELMA: Spring training starts the twelfth. How do you think the Indians will do this year?
VIC: They don't look too good.
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE: They don't look particularly good, do they?
LONGSHOREMEN: I'll tell ya. They don't look very fuckin' good.
GROUNDSKEEPER: ( in subtitles ) They're shitty.
DONOVAN: ( checking his watch ) Thirty minutes late. Think she'll She's got to. She's the damn owner She didn't last week. She was having a guava facial.
MATTHEWS: She's got to. She's the damn owner She didn't last week. She was having a guava facial.
DONOVAN: She didn't last week. She was having a guava facial.
RACHEL: Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome to another season of Indians' baseball.
RACHEL: I know that it may not seem the same without Donald here this year, but I promise you by the end of the season this team will have made history.
RACHEL: ( picking up a newspaper ) Unfortunately there are some in the press who feel that. ( reading from the page ) "the ex-showgirl wife of Donald Phelps has no business being the owner of a major league baseball team."
RACHEL: Obviously, Donald didn't feel that way or he wouldn't have left the team to me. And I was more than showgirl. I was a dancer. Now, I know some of you have doubts about my ability to run this franchise. God help you if I ever find out about
RACHEL: Spring training begins in two weeks. Here's the list of people we'll be inviting to camp this year.
RACHEL: I could sit here and tell you what a great year we're gonna have, but the facts are we lost the two best players we had to free agency. We haven't won a pennant in 30 years. We haven't even finished in the first division for 15. Obviously it's time to make some changes. What do ya think?
SIMMONS: I never heard of half these guys. And the ones I do know are way past their prime.
DONOVAN: Most of these guys never had a prime.
BUTLER: ( pointing to the sheet ) This guy here is dead.
RACHEL: Cross him off then.
BUTLER: ( under his breath ) Let's not be hasty.
RACHEL: It's time to shake things up, Charlie. Clear the board and start over.
DONOVAN: Well, it's not the best material I've ever had to work with, but I'll do my best to see we move up a notch this year.
RACHEL: I know you will, Charlie. That's why I'm movin' you up to General Manager.
RACHEL: Well, that should do it for today. Thank you, gentlemen. Let's get to
MATTHEWS: ( checking his watch ) One minute, 58 seconds.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
RACHEL: Come on in, Charlie. Have a seat.
DONOVAN: I'm glad you called me in. I'm still unclear on a couple things
RACHEL: Oh, really? Like what?
DONOVAN: Well, if I'm the G.M., who's gonna be the Manager?
RACHEL: I was thinking of Lou Brown.
DONOVAN: Lou Brown?
RACHEL: He's managed the Toledo Mud Hens of the International League for the last 30 years.
RACHEL: I think he'll fit right in with our team concept.
DONOVAN: What exactly is our team concept?
RACHEL: That's what I wanted to talk to you about. I want to put together a team that will help us relocate to Miami.
DONOVAN: What do you mean? Some of these guys are furniture I'm serious about this, Charlie. It's no secret I've never liked Cleveland much. The weather's lousy, downtown is a pit, the stadium's falling apart, and we can't draw dick. Another couple of years of this and I'm gonna have to start feeding Cha-Cha dog food.
RACHEL: I'm serious about this, Charlie. It's no secret I've never liked Cleveland much. The weather's lousy, downtown is a pit, the stadium's falling apart, and we can't draw dick. Another couple of years of this and I'm gonna have to start feeding Cha-Cha dog food.
DONOVAN: Mrs. Phelps, you can't just up and move a team on a whim.
RACHEL: It's hardly a whim. Miami's offered to build us a new stadium 62,000 capacity, 45 V.I.P. boxes, and no rent for the first million at the gate. Plus a 12 million dollar media guarantee; 45 percent of the concession gross, all of the parking and they pick up the stadium operations costs. No other franchise in baseball can match that deal.
DONOVAN: Even so, the League'll never let us leave Cleveland. We got a lease with the city.
RACHEL: The lease says we have the right to move if our attendance falls below 800,000 for the year. Paragraph 40, line 17.
RACHEL: If we play bad enough, we should be able to come in under that.
DONOVAN: What are you saying? You want us to No, we've been losing. What I want us to do is finish dead last. Mister Phelps would never have approved of this.
RACHEL: No, we've been losing. What I want us to do is finish dead last. Mister Phelps would never have approved of this.
DONOVAN: Mister Phelps would never have approved of this.
RACHEL: He knew it had to be done. He just didn't have the courage to do it. Hopefully, you will come to see the wisdom of it. If this team lives up to its potential, we could have the worst record in all baseball.
TAYLOR: It's Charlie Donovan calling from his office in Cleveland. We CUT BACK AND FORTH between the two as we will in subsequent phone scenes.
DONOVAN: Hello, Jake? This is Charlie Donovan, new G.M. of the Cleveland Indians.
TAYLOR: ( skeptical ) I wanted to call and say the organization remembers you fondly from the years you played here and we'd love to have you come to spring training for a shot at this year's Who is this?
DONOVAN: I wanted to call and say the organization remembers you fondly from the years you played here and we'd love to have you come to spring training for a shot at this year's Who is this?
TAYLOR: Who is this?
DONOVAN: Is that you, Tolbert? This isn't very funny, ya know. I'm hung over. My knees are killin' me. If you were gonna pull this shit, you could've at least said you were from the
TAYLOR: Is that you, Tolbert? This isn't very funny, ya know. I'm hung over. My knees are killin' me. If you were gonna pull this shit, you could've at least said you were from the
TAYLOR: ( still to Donovan ) By the way, you were with me last night. Who's this girl on top of me?
TAYLOR: Tolbert? Tolbert? Screw it.
TAYLOR: Who the hell were you talkin' to?
TOLBERT: Who the hell were you talkin' to?
SECRETARY: Lines three and four are waiting for you, Mr. Brown. One guy about the TR- Tire World.
BROWN: ( picking up the phone ) Tire World.
DONOVAN: Lou? This is Charlie Donovan, the new G.M. of the Cleveland Indians. Listen, Lou, I hope you're sittin' down 'cause I got an offer you probably been dreamin' about your whole life. We been watchin' your progress down there at Toledo with a lotta interest and well. How would you like to manage the Indians this year?
BROWN: I don't know.
DONOVAN: ( incredulous ) What do ya mean you don't know? This is a chance to manage in the big Lemme think it over, will ya, Charlie. I got a guy on the other line about some whitewalls. I'll talk to ya
BROWN: Lemme think it over, will ya, Charlie. I got a guy on the other line about some whitewalls. I'll talk to ya
DONOVAN: Rick, we heard about your pitching out at Portland last year.
RICKY VAUGHN: Good-looking, muscular, 19-year-old. Sleeveless black T-shirt. Talking on a wall phone in a nondescript room.
VAUGHN: I'm, ah, not with them anymore.
DONOVAN: We'd still like to take a look at ya at our spring camp in Arizona, March
VAUGHN: Yeh, well, I'm not sure I can make it by then.
DONOVAN: Don't worry, we're gettin' you out on a sort of work furlough deal. Any Yeh. Where's Cleveland?
VAUGHN: Yeh. Where's Cleveland?
DONOVAN: Look, Lou, you been in baseball thirty years. Don't you wanna advance some?
BROWN: ( eating a sack lunch ) I used to coach the unwed mothers' softball team. I have advanced some. Well, what are you really worried about? The money?
DONOVAN: Well, what are you really worried about? The money?
BROWN: Naw, I'm just not sure I'd be happy in a big organization like that. Owners are always on your back, tryin' to "help you out."
DONOVAN: I don't think that's gonna be a Down here baseball's a game, not a business. I don't wanta be a babysitter for a buncha millionaires who think they know it all already.
BROWN: Down here baseball's a game, not a business. I don't wanta be a babysitter for a buncha millionaires who think they know it all already.
DONOVAN: We don't have any millionaires.
BROWN: Well then, bonus babies or whatever you got.
DONOVAN: Don't have any bonus babies either.
BROWN: Don't you have any proven major league Not that I know of.
DONOVAN: ( embarrassed ) Not that I know of.
BROWN: Well, then. I'll be up in a couple Sounds like my kinda team. Have my contracts ready.
DONOVAN: Sounds like my kinda team. Have my contracts ready.
BROWN: Sounds like my kinda team. Have my contracts ready.
DONOVAN: ( to the others ) Guess I really put the screws to
TAYLOR: returning to the dugout at the end of the inning, wondering what the hell he's doin' here.
MANAGER: Taylor, telephone for you.
TAYLOR: Jake, Charlie Donovan again.
DONOVAN: Jake, Charlie Donovan again.
TAYLOR: Oh yeh, Charlie, look, I'm sorry about this morning.
DONOVAN: No problem. Look, Jake, camp starts on the first. Can you make it?
TAYLOR: You been stayin' in shape down there?
DONOVAN: You been stayin' in shape down there?
TAYLOR: Oh hell, yeh, I work out every day.
DONOVAN: I thought so. See ya in Arizona.
TAYLOR: approaching his MANAGER.
MANAGER: Let's go, Taylor. You're up.
TAYLOR: Luis, I'm not gonna be playin' anymore. I got a tryout in the States.
MANAGER: Fine. Leave your uniform.
TAYLOR: But I changed at the motel.
MANAGER: Leave your uniform.
TAYLOR: coming out of the stadium, his bats and gloves over his shoulder. He has on his spikes and a pair of boxer shorts.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
TAYLOR: He gets out of a taxi and goes to the trunk to get his bats and luggage.
DONOVAN: This looks like Jake Taylor.
BROWN: He was an Allstar in Boston, wasn't Wish we had him two years ago.
DONOVAN: Wish we had him two years ago.
PEPPER: Wish we had him two years ago.
DONOVAN: We did.
PEPPER: Four years ago then.
TAYLOR: What happened to the private rooms?
TEMPLE: We're on an austerity program. This is what happens when you finish 24 games out.
BROWN: Who's that?
DONOVAN: I think it's Cerrano. Defected from Cuba. Wanted religious freedom.
BROWN: What's his religion?
DONOVAN: BLACK AND TAN ROLLS-ROYCE pulling into the parking lot. Out steps RODGER DORN, high- priced third baseman. Brown eyes him with vague disapproval.
BROWN: Thought you didn't have any high- priced talent.
DONOVAN: ( sheepish ) I forgot about Dorn, 'cause he's only high-priced. Got him as a free agent three years ago.
BROWN: Still hits the ball pretty well, doesn't he?
DONOVAN: Yeh, he just can't field it.
BROWN: We'll shape him up.
WILLIE HAYES: a 22-year-old black, pulling up in a '72 VW Beetle which he's got a Cadillac grille on. He steps out in his shades and sharkskin suit.
DONOVAN: Don't recognize this guy.
HAYES: Say hey, Willie Mays Hayes here. I play like Mays and run like Hayes.
BROWN: Lou Brown. Nice to meet ya, Hayes.
HAYES: Thanks. Well, I gotta get my stuff.
DONOVAN: I don't remember a Hayes on the list.
PEPPER: Look at this fuckin' guy.
TEMPLE: Maybe he's the mascot.
DORN: Hey, what do we have here? Guy looks like a fuckin' toilet brush. Hey, T.B., I love your pony tail. And the earring's cute too. Where's the matching bracelet? Jake Taylor.
TAYLOR: ( offering his hand ) Jake Taylor.
TAYLOR: So, you just gonna settle for toilet brush, or you got another name?
VAUGHN: Vaughn. Rick Vaughn.
TAYLOR: Forget about Dorn. He's always a little tough on rookies. You'll get a lot worse from other teams.
HAYES: Say hey! How ya doin'? Willie Mays Hayes here.
TAYLOR: Jake Taylor. Rick Vaughn.
HAYES: What the hell league you been playin' California Penal.
VAUGHN: California Penal.
HAYES: Never heard of it. How'd you wind up playin' there?
VAUGHN: I stole a car.
GUARD: This guy wasn't invited to camp.
BROWN: Welcome to Spring Training, gentlemen. Most managers tell you at this time that all the jobs are open, that nobody's a lock at any position, and that talent isn't everything. They'd rather see desire and discipline in a player. Then they tell you that most of all they want you to have fun out there, even though they're gonna work your ass off on fundamentals and condition you till you drop. The difference between me and those other managers is. I mean it.
HAYES: Shit, I been cut already?
PEPPER: ( checking stopwatch ) 11.9 Taylor. Not bad if you'd fallen
HAYES: looking through the chain-link fence surrounding the field.
BROWN: Get him a uniform.
TAYLOR: struggling through a series of pushups. He glances over in disbelief at Vaughn and Cerrano, who are doing them like pistons in competition with each other. Cerrano even starts doing them one-handed. Hayes isn't doing them at all; merely pulling his head up and down while leaving his body on the ground.
HARRIS: C'mon, Hayes, let's do 'em right.
HAYES: Hey, my philosophy is no pain, no
BROWN: How the knees holdin' up, Jake?
TAYLOR: Great. Never been better.
BROWN: Mobility's good? No problem gettin' off the throw to second?
TAYLOR: No problem.
BROWN: I need a catcher, Jake. Somebody who can keep this team together on the field. You were a helluva player when you were sound, but around the league they think you can't take the pounding anymore.
TAYLOR: Around the league they're wrong.
BROWN: I'm gonna have to put you to the test, ya know. So, I want the absolute truth here. Are you 100 percent?
TAYLOR: Yeh. Would I bullshit about somethin' like that?
BROWN: ( walking away ) You better if you wanna make this
BROWN: C'mon, Hayes, this isn't the All Star Game. Get up to the damn plate.
BROWN: Well, you may run like Mays, but you hit like shit.
HAYES: My stroke'll come back once I get warmed up.
TEMPLE: ( referring to some stats ) Never did get warmed up last year. Hit .211 at Maine. I looked him up.
BROWN: I think Mr. Hayes shows some promise. His speed could be a big asset.
PEPPER: ( aside ) For what? Running back to the dugout?
BROWN: You gotta stop swingin' for the fences though, Hayes. All you're gonna do is give yourself a hernia. With your speed you should be hittin' the ball on the ground, leggin' 'em out. Every time I see you hit one in the air, you owe me twenty pushups.
HAYES: Hey, no problem.
HAYES: As he gets down to do his twenty, Brown turns to Temple.
BROWN: Sometimes you can teach a guy to hit. You can't teach him to run.
BROWN: All right, Vaughn, they tell us you're a pitcher. Let's see what you got.
BROWN: Nice velocity.
PEPPER: Sounded like it.
TAYLOR: Sorry, Lou, I wasn't quite expectin' that much octane.
BROWN: How much?
CLUBHOUSE MAN: 96 miles an hour.
BROWN: ( to Pepper ) Better teach him some control before he kills somebody.
RODGER DORN: fielding grounders at third base. He plays them off to his left side a bit, almost as if he's afraid to get bit by them.
BROWN: C'mon, Dorn, get in front of the damn ball. Don't give me this ole' bullshit.
DORN: I took one of these in the eye last year. Nearly lost my sight.
BROWN: I'm deeply moved. Every time you play it off your hip, you give me forty sit-ups.
DORN: What! That's Little League shit.
BROWN: So is this.
PEDRO CERRANO: in the batting cage, knocking the cover off pitch after pitch with his black bat.
BROWN: Jesus, this guy hits a ton. How come nobody else picked up on him?
TEMPLE: ( to the batting practice pitcher ) Okay, Harris, that's enough fast balls. Throw some curves.
BROWN: Dorn approaches Brown at the cage.
DORN: Lou, I wanna have a word with you Those penalty sit-ups you want me to do? I got it right here in my contract that I don't have to do any calisthenics I don't feel are necessary. What do ya think of that?
BROWN: ( whipping out his contract ) Those penalty sit-ups you want me to do? I got it right here in my contract that I don't have to do any calisthenics I don't feel are necessary. What do ya think of that?
DORN: ( whipping out his contract ) Those penalty sit-ups you want me to do? I got it right here in my contract that I don't have to do any calisthenics I don't feel are necessary. What do ya think of that?
DORN: doing sit-ups in the infield. Vaughn walks by and smiles.
PEPPER: ( to Temple ) We got anybody left playin' baseball out there?
TAYLOR: Shit, the way I played today, I wouldn't be surprised if they red- tagged me already.
HAYES: What do ya mean?
TAYLOR: Red tag in your locker means the manager wants to see you, 'cause you just died and went to the minors. Don't worry, they don't cut anybody the first day.
TAYLOR: Don't worry, they don't cut anybody the first day.
VAUGHN: What is that stuff?
HARRIS: ( pointing to them in order ) Crisco, Bardahl, Vagisil. Any one of 'em will give you another 2-3 inches drop on your curve ball.
HARRIS: Course if it's cold and I got a shirt on under my jersey, I just rub a little jalapeno inside my nose and get it runnin'. I need to load up the ball a little, I just wipe my You put snot on the ball?
VAUGHN: ( revolted ) You put snot on the ball?
HARRIS: At my age, you put anything you can find on it. I haven't got an arm like yours.
TAYLOR: What are you doin' there, Pedro?
CERRANO: Bats. They are sick.
TAYLOR: So are mine. Is somethin' goin' No hit curve ball. Straight ball, hit it very much. Curve ball, bats are afraid. I ask Jo-Buu to come. Take fear from bats.
CERRANO: No hit curve ball. Straight ball, hit it very much. Curve ball, bats are afraid. I ask Jo-Buu to come. Take fear from bats.
HAYES: Maybe he's the pagan saint of I offer him cigars and gin. He will
TAYLOR: Maybe he's the pagan saint of I offer him cigars and gin. He will
CERRANO: I offer him cigars and gin. He will
HARRIS: I wouldn't leave this gin sittin' around out here with this group.
CERRANO: ( with a certain gravity ) Is very bad to steal Jo-Buu's gin. Is very bad.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
MONTAGE SEQUENCE: compressing and detailing the progress of spring training. We see: A ) Vaughn on the pitcher's mound. A tin replica of a batter has been set up at home plate and rope stretched across the plate to delineate the strike zone. Vaughn fires a pitch and hits the tin batter in the hip, leaving a dent in him. B ) Cerrano in the batting cage, flailing away in futility at several curve balls.
VAUGHN: This is final cut down day, right?
TAYLOR: Yeh, better get your snake ready, No, I'm goin' cold turkey today. My hands are too screwed up to hold it
HAYES: No, I'm goin' cold turkey today. My hands are too screwed up to hold it
TAYLOR: If you're gonna use that head first slide, you better get yourself some gloves or you're not gonna have any skin left on your hands.
VAUGHN: I don't wanna go in there.
TAYLOR: Whatever happens, keep it to yourself until you're outta the locker room. Don't celebrate in front of guys who just died.
HAYES: What if we're one of the deceased?
GENTRY: opens locker, slumps on stool. He's a goner.
HAYES: C'mon, Vaughn, let's show some nuts here. If they cut us, we'll just sign with the Yankees.
VAUGHN: drawing strength from Hayes, walks resolutely to his locker and whips it open. There hanging from the top hook is the "red death." Vaughn stares at it expressionless, then slowly closes his locker.
VAUGHN: I got news for you, Mr. Brown. You haven't heard the last of me. You think I'm shit now, but someday you'll be sorry you cut me. I'm gonna catch on somewhere else, and every time I pitch against you, I'm gonna stick it up your ass.
BROWN: Good, I like that kinda spirit in a player. The only problem is, I didn't cut you.
VAUGHN: What do you mean?
BROWN: I think somebody's been havin' fun with you.
DORN: ( to Vaughn ) What's the matter, little lady? Can't you take a joke?
BROWN: Can I have your attention, please? I counted up your ballots for team captain and I think you chose the right guy. If you hadn't, I woulda told you he won anyway. Mr. C for the year Jake Taylor.
TAYLOR: Forget about Dorn. You got other things to do.
VAUGHN: Like what?
TAYLOR: Packing for Cleveland.
THELMA: You see the new lineup the Indians I never heard of most of 'em.
BOBBY: I never heard of most of 'em.
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE: I don't know the majority of these
LONGSHOREMAN: Who are these fuckin' guys?
GROUNDSKEEPER: ( in subtitles ) They're shitty.
TAYLOR: ( to himself ) Two down. Bottom of the ninth.
HAYES: Really got all of that one.
VAUGHN: What was it? A slider?
TAYLOR: What are you gonna have?
HAYES: I don't know. What language is this?
TAYLOR: They got patty melts over there?
HAYES: They got patty melts over there?
TAYLOR: Forget it. I'll order. Let's have a
TAYLOR: Here's to baseball, here's to the start of two great careers, and for me, here's to at least one more good year in the sun.
VAUGHN: What is it? The chick?
TAYLOR: That's my wife.
HAYES: Does she know it?
TAYLOR: I mean she woulda been if I hadn't screwed it up. Who's that guy she's I don't know. He's not wearing a name tag.
HAYES: I don't know. He's not wearing a name tag.
VAUGHN: You want me to beat the shit out of What does she do?
TAYLOR: What does she do?
HAYES: What does she do?
TAYLOR: She's a librarian.
VAUGHN: A librarian? Shit, I gotta start readin' again.
WAITER: Miss Wells, there's a telephone call for you.
LYNN: Hello, Lynn. It's Jake.
VOICE: Hello, Lynn. It's Jake.
LYNN: Jake? How did you know I was here?
TAYLOR: Just a hunch. I took you there when you got your masters. I figure you're probably wearing the black velvet dress with the red sash. How did you know that? I didn't have this dress when we were.
LYNN: How did you know that? I didn't have this dress when we were.
TAYLOR: You look great.
LYNN: Thanks. What are you doin' here? Aren't you supposed to be in Mexico I'm playin' with the Indians again. Back in the Bigs.
TAYLOR: I'm playin' with the Indians again. Back in the Bigs.
LYNN: That's great. I'm happy for you,
LYNN: ( starting away ) I gotta get back.
TAYLOR: Wait a minute. What's your number. I tried calling you at home, but you're not listed.
LYNN: My life is different from when you knew me.
TAYLOR: Meaning what? That I don't know you Couldn't we talk about this some other time? I really gotta.
LYNN: Couldn't we talk about this some other time? I really gotta.
TAYLOR: Okay, just gimme your number.
LYNN: I don't think that's a good idea.
TAYLOR: Why not? Because of the guy you're with? What is he, a banker?
LYNN: Lawyer. Please, Jake, he's watching I'm not leavin' without your number. You still wear those great little tortoise-shell glasses? I always loved it when you took them off.
TAYLOR: I'm not leavin' without your number. You still wear those great little tortoise-shell glasses? I always loved it when you took them off.
LYNN: ( exasperated ) The number, Lynn.
TAYLOR: The number, Lynn.
LYNN: ( reluctant ) All right. 555-9314.
TAYLOR: Thank you. I'm back, Lynn, and I'm gonna be around.
CABBIE: What's the number again?
TAYLOR: ( looking at a piece of paper )
HAYES: What is this place?
TAYLOR: Furnished apartment building owned by the Indians. We get special rates. With what we're makin' we'll need
CABBIE: That's it.
TAYLOR: Welcome to the Big Leagues.
TAYLOR: You got anybody workin' there named Lynn Wells?
TAYLOR: Didn't think so.
TAYLOR: Take it easy. We got 162 of these to
BROWN: All right, let's gather 'round.
BROWN: I'm not much for inspirational addresses. I just wanta point out that every newspaper in the country has picked us to finish last. The local press thinks we'd save everybody a lot of time and trouble if we just went out and shot ourselves. Me, I like to waste sportswriters' time so I'm for hangin' around and seein' if we can give all these guys a nice big shitburger to eat.
HARRIS: Aren't we gonna have a prayer? I mean we're not all savages like You guys go ahead. I belong to the church of three-run homers.
BROWN: You guys go ahead. I belong to the church of three-run homers.
HARRIS: All right, let's bow our heads.
CERRANO: Have to wake up bats.
HARRIS: Dear Lord, we ask. You read the Plain Dealer today? They said this is gonna be the worst Indian team we've had in years.
JOHNNY: You read the Plain Dealer today? They said this is gonna be the worst Indian team we've had in years.
THELMA: Everybody laughs at the Indians now, but there were other times. Even won the Series in '48. Then Willie Mays made that catch on Vic Wertz in the '54 Series and Cleveland's never been the same since.
JOHNNY: As the Indians go so goes Cleveland, If we ever lost the Indians, Cleveland would die.
THELMA: If we ever lost the Indians, Cleveland would die.
DOYLE: ( on the air ) Hello, everybody, Harry Doyle here, welcoming all you Friends of the Feather to another season of Indians ( pouring some Jack Daniels in his Coke ) A lotta new faces for the tribe this year, as they take on the defending American League champs, the New York Yankees. And listen to the roar of the crowd as the Indians takes the
DOYLE: Yes, sir, they love this club here in Cleveland.
BROWN: All right, way to look, way to look. Nice catch, Hayes. Don't ever fuckin' do it again. Okay, let's get it goin'!
DOYLE: Bottom of the first, Willie Mays Hayes to lead it off for the tribe.
HAYES: going through his warmup routine at the plate.
DOYLE: And so the string is broken. Maybe things will turn around a little for the Indians this year.
THE BLEACHERS: Our four fans ( from here on known as the Bleacher Band ), overjoyed by Hayes' hit, start beating the tom-toms and singing a fight song they've composed called "In the Land Of Burning Waters" to the tune of the old Hamms Beer jingle.
BLEACHER BAND: In the land of burning waters, waters Lurks the Injun nine, oh so fine, we Love those mighty Redmen, Turn their foes to dead men, Ummmmm.
FIRST BASEMAN: Showed some real power on that one, I plan to get at least a double out of it.
HAYES: I plan to get at least a double out of it.
HAYES: ( to the First Baseman ) Bought a hundred of these, one for each base I plan to steal. Excuse me, here, I gotta take my first step toward the Hall of Fame.
FIRST BASEMAN: You look real sharp, but you'll never steal second with your shoe untied.
FIRST BASEMAN: Nice base running, dildo. Hard to get your thumb out of your ass with the gloves on.
DOYLE: Well, so much for that.
TAYLOR'S VOICE: Guy's goin'. Gotta be goin'. get the throw up. Don't bounce the damn
TAYLOR'S VOICE: Nice throw, dickhead.
THE SCOREBOARD: It shows Yankees 4, Indians 0 after five innings.
DOYLE: Top of the sixth. Rookie sensation, Ricky Vaughn, on to pitch now. You can close the book on Winters.
TAYLOR: Easy does it, Ricky. We're only four down. We're still in this thing.
PEPPER: Don't worry if you're off the plate on a few pitches. Doesn't hurt to put the fear of God in a hitter.
YANKEE HITTER: This guy kinda wild?
TAYLOR: I figure you got a 30% chance to survive this at bat.
BOBBY: Wild thing, You make my heart sing, You walk everything.
PEPPER: Okay kid. I think we got 'em scared enough now. Time to get a few of 'em
PEPPER: Just relax, and keep the arm up on top. Gotta throw strikes. No place at the inn for this guy.
HAYWOOD: Hey, Taylor, what you doin' back up Couldn't cut it in the Mexican League.
TAYLOR: Couldn't cut it in the Mexican League.
VAUGHN: Oh, shit.
PEPPER: ( to Brown ) Looked like a strike anyway. You want me to go get him?
BROWN: No, let's see how he reacts.
BROWN: At least he hit what he was aimin' I think you can go get him now.
PEPPER: At least he hit what he was aimin' I think you can go get him now.
BROWN: I think you can go get him now.
PEPPER: C'mon, kid. As soon as Coleman gets up, he's gonna be lookin' for you.
VAUGHN: walking alone down the tunnel to the locker room. He angrily knocks one of the overhead light bulbs out with his glove.
DOYLE: So, a tough start for the Erie warriors, as they drop a heartbreaker to the Yankees, nine to nothing. The Post Game Show was brought to you Christ. I can't find it. The hell with it. This is Harry Doyle saying good night, everybody, and Happy
RACHEL PHELPS: in her private box at the stadium. With her are Donovan and We GO TO Donovan. He watches Rachel go in disgust.
RACHEL: ( getting up to leave ) We're off to a good start, gentlemen. Let's keep it up.
VAUGHN: God, I was horse shit tonight.
TAYLOR: Only thing you got to be sorry about was hittin' Coleman.
VAUGHN: If you wanted to send a message, it shoulda been to Haywood. He hit the damn homer. Coleman was just picking his nose in the on-deck circle.
TAYLOR: If you wanted to send a message, it shoulda been to Haywood. He hit the damn homer. Coleman was just picking his nose in the on-deck circle.
TAYLOR: Forget the other stuff. It coulda happened to anybody. Besides, Haywood didn't hit it that good. That ball wouldn't have been out of a lotta Oh yeh, name one.
VAUGHN: Oh yeh, name one.
TAYLOR: ( after a pause )
VAUGHN: EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL LIBRARY - DAY We see Taylor walking up the steps and through the massive front door.
LYNN: ( hushed ) Jake, you shouldn't have come here.
TAYLOR: I was wonderin' why you'd give an old friend a bum phone number.
LYNN: Let's talk in my office, okay?
TAYLOR: I don't wanna talk in your office.
LYNN: I told you I don't think it's a good idea for us to see each other.
TAYLOR: Why not?
LYNN: We don't have anything in common. Sometimes I wonder if we ever did.
TAYLOR: What are you talkin' about? We were both athletes, world class, hot for each other. What more can you have in common?
LYNN: I stopped bein' an athlete three years ago. Books are my life now.
LYNN: Don't you dare laugh, Jake. In two years I've put together one of the best special collections departments in the country.
TAYLOR: So what is it? You're still sore I never read Moby Dick?
LYNN: You never read anything I asked you Not like what's-his-name at the His name is Tom, and keep your voice What do ya see in this guy?
TAYLOR: Not like what's-his-name at the His name is Tom, and keep your voice What do ya see in this guy?
LYNN: His name is Tom, and keep your voice What do ya see in this guy?
TAYLOR: What do ya see in this guy?
LYNN: He's stable. He's intelligent. and I've never found him in bed with a That's 'cause no stewardess would have him. Wouldn't you rather be with somebody who's in demand?
TAYLOR: That's 'cause no stewardess would have him. Wouldn't you rather be with somebody who's in demand?
LYNN: Just like always, you don't take anything seriously. Everything's a joke to you.
TAYLOR: C'mon, Lynn, for Christ sake, I'm just tryin' to loosen things up a little. I'm gettin' frostbite here.
LYNN: Tom and I are getting married in the
TAYLOR: What? That's crazy, Lynn. I got plans for us.
LYNN: ( walking again ) What plans?
TAYLOR: I was gonna play another a year or two, then we go to Hawaii, and have a couple kids who grow up to be Olympic champions.
LYNN: ( stopping again ) How can you think stuff like that? I haven't seen you in two years. You never even wrote me a letter.
TAYLOR: I'm sorry, Lynn, but I wasn't exactly proud of my situation. C'mon, you didn't think about me at all since I been gone?
LYNN: ( walking again ) Not so loud, Jake.
TAYLOR: Remember the three nights we spent on the beach in Vera Cruz? You have nights like that with Mr. Briefcase?
LYNN: ( stopping again ) What about the night you had in Detroit with Miss Dairy Queen?
TAYLOR: What was I supposed to do? She bet me fifty bucks she had a better body than you. I had to defend your honor.
LYNN: ( whirling on him and exploding ) What a bunch of bullshit! ( exasperated ) I have a much better body than she
TAYLOR: ( addressing the library patrons ) She's right. Take it from me, she really does. I mean Miss Dairy Queen has quantity, I give her that, but the, ah, quality just isn't there.
TAYLOR: How many think Lynn oughta give me another shot?
TAYLOR: The ayes have it.
LYNN: ( walking off again ) You haven't changed at all, have I'm afraid I have or I wouldn't be here. C'mon, Lynn, I don't wanna do time for things that happened years ( turning back to him ) I'm sorry, Jake. You'll always be the little boy who wouldn't grow up.
TAYLOR: I'm afraid I have or I wouldn't be here. C'mon, Lynn, I don't wanna do time for things that happened years I'm sorry, Jake. You'll always be the little boy who wouldn't grow up.
LYNN: ( turning back to him ) I'm sorry, Jake. You'll always be the little boy who wouldn't grow up.
TAYLOR: Lynn, wait.
RACHEL: A quarter of the season's gone, we're 15 and 24, seven games out of first. Our attendance is just below 180,000. That's bad, but not bad enough.
DONOVAN: Projected over the whole season, we stand to wind up 36 games under .500 and 28 out of first. That should be bad enough for anybody.
RACHEL: We finished 24 out last year and still drew 890,000. When school's out for the summer, attendance is liable to rise. Plus, this team is showing signs of improvement. I didn't think we'd win 15 games all year. Any ideas?
DONOVAN: On how we can get worse? How about a series of fines for good play? Maybe a $30,000 bonus to the guy chosen Least Valuable Player.
RACHEL: This is no laughing matter, Donovan. I think maybe the problem is we're coddling these guys too much.
HAYES: What's with this? We never leave from this terminal.
TAYLOR: Maybe the other one's jammed up.
HAYES: ( pointing to the jets ) Which one is ours?
GATEMAN: That one.
TAYLOR: What is this, Lou?
BROWN: Front office says it's an economy measure, 'cause we're not drawin' Well, they certainly have spared every expense.
TAYLOR: Well, they certainly have spared every expense.
HARRIS: Oh, so now you come around. He's not fooled.
HAYES: Call the stewardess, Vaughn. I need one of those bags.
VAUGHN: There aren't any stewardesses.
HAYES: I wonder if there's any pilots.
DOYLE: Two down, top of the ninth. Last chance for the red and blue.
THE FIELD: The Brewer pitcher delivers and a Cleveland player hits a ground ball to the Brewer Second Baseman who throws him out.
DOYLE: in the press box again.
DOYLE: So, the Sons of Geronimo, still suffering a bit from propeller lag, are nipped by the Tigers tonight, 7 to 0. The only excitement for the tribe provided by Rick Vaughn who set an American League record by throwing four wild pitches in one inning. Congratulations, Rick. For the Tigers, 5 runs, 9 hits, and no errors. For the Indians, one run, and let's see, one hit. Is that all we got, one fucking hit?
STAT MAN: ( whispering ) You can't say "fuckin'" on the air.
DOYLE: Don't worry about it. Nobody's listening anyway.
HARRIS: Who you got lined up tonight?
DORN: Where are we? Kansas City, right? Gotta be Arlene
HARRIS: You call her?
DORN: Don't have to. She knows when I'm in I'm about ready to turn in. I've anesthetized my knees enough.
TAYLOR: I'm about ready to turn in. I've anesthetized my knees enough.
GUY: Excuse me, Mr. Vaughn, can I have your autograph?
VAUGHN: Ah. yeh. sure. My first autograph. I couldn't give these away a couple weeks ago.
GUY: I saw your record on the news. You made their Hall of Shame. You're a celebrity now, Vaughn.
VAUGHN: ( embarrassed ) You're a celebrity now, Vaughn.
TAYLOR: You're a celebrity now, Vaughn.
VAUGHN: I thought you had to do somethin' good to be a celebrity.
TAYLOR: Not if you do it colorfully.
DORN: ( pointing to the door ) What'd I tell ya. Hi, Rodger. This is Vicki and Rene.
ARLENE: Hi, Rodger. This is Vicki and Rene.
DORN: Hi, doll. This is Steve Harris.
ARLENE: Where's your buddy Gant?
DORN: ( indicating Vaughn ) They cut him to make room for bristle boy over there.
ARLENE: ( looking over at Vaughn ) Is that Vaughn, the guy they call Wild Thing?
DORN: ( in disgust ) He's kinda cute. They say he could be a big star.
ARLENE: He's kinda cute. They say he could be a big star.
DORN: What are you talkin' about? He couldn't find the plate if it was magnetized. He won't last the year.
ARLENE: He struck out five in a row before the wild pitches. Maybe I'll check him out.
DORN: ( grabbing her ) Wait a minute, you're with me.
ARLENE: I don't remember you makin' any date.
DORN: Since when do I have to make a date? Who's been showin' you this town the last three years?
ARLENE: Ancient history, Rodger. I gotta look out for myself now. I don't have to be a slave to no .235 hitter.
ARLENE: Wild Thing, you make my heart sing.
DORN: taking this all in from across the room. Taylor comes up next to him.
TAYLOR: Guess we're over with, eh, Dorn?
DORN: Speak for yourself, Taylor. I got a couple good years left.
HAYES: "Moby Dick?" What is that?
TAYLOR: It's one of the masterpieces of American literature, that's all.
HAYES: Lynn put you on to this?
TAYLOR: Long time ago.
HAYES: Well, we're goin' to a club tonight. You wanna come along?
TAYLOR: No, I got some more reading to do.
HAYES: What, you got a test or somethin'? Why don't you just go over and see her? Maybe she'll let you slide on a couple of these.
TAYLOR: I might if I knew where she lives.
HAYES: Easy. Tail her home from the library.
TAYLOR: You mean sit in a car and wait for her to come out? That's kinda juvenile, don't you think?
HAYES: ( as if that had anything to do with it )
TAYLOR: pulling up outside the townhouse he saw Lynn go into. He goes up the stairs and knocks on the door. Lynn answers, looking more dressed up than when she left the library. She's surprised to see Taylor.
TAYLOR: Look, Lynn, I'm sorry I followed you home but I wanna.
LYNN: ( hurried ) This isn't my place.
TAYLOR: Whose place is it?
TOM: Who's there, love? Oh, Mr. Taylor, right? I remember you from the restaurant. Lynn's told me a lot about you. Why don't you come in for a while?
TAYLOR: Nah, that's o.k., I got some things to do.
LYNN: Yeh, he's gotta be goin'.
TOM: No, really, come on in for a drink.
TOM: Excuse me, everybody, this is Jake Jake, Arthur and Claire Holloway Brent and Janice Bowden. Jake is a professional baseball player.
TOM: So, Jake, what brings you here this I, ah, just had a couple books I wanted to discuss with Lynn. I thought this was her place.
TAYLOR: I, ah, just had a couple books I wanted to discuss with Lynn. I thought this was her place.
TOM: Well, it soon will be.
TAYLOR: Yeh, I heard you guys were engaged.
TOM: Thank you. What can I get you to Beer'll be fine.
TAYLOR: Beer'll be fine.
JACK: What team do you play for, Jake?
TAYLOR: The Indians.
CLAIRE: Here in Cleveland? I didn't know they still had a team.
TAYLOR: Yeh, we have uniforms and everything. It's really great.
TOM: ( handing Jake his beer ) They're last right now, but hopefully moving up, eh, Jake?
JANICE: I'm told that baseball players make very good salaries these days.
TAYLOR: That depends on how good they are, I How good are you?
JANICE: How good are you?
TAYLOR: I make the League minimum.
LYNN: He was one of the best in baseball until he had problems with his knees.
TOM: What are you going to do when your career ends? I mean you can't play baseball forever, can you?
TAYLOR: Somethin'll come up.
TOM: Will it?
TAYLOR: I don't know, I was thinkin' of goin' to Hawaii, and having a couple of kids who grow up to be Olympic Oh really. In what event?
JACK: Oh really. In what event?
TAYLOR: Swimming. Maybe the two hundred meter Individual Medley. I figure it oughta be big by then.
BRENT: You got the girl picked out?
TAYLOR: I did, but I wasn't smart enough to hold on to her.
BRENT: You used to be an athlete, didn't you, Lynn?
LYNN: ( not wanting to pursue it ) What did you do?
BRENT: What did you do?
LYNN: ( reluctant ) Two Hundred Individual medley.
TAYLOR: Alternate on the '80 Olympic Team.
TAYLOR: Well, I gotta be goin'. Nice to have met you all. Let me walk you out. Thanks for the beer.
TOM: Let me walk you out. Thanks for the beer.
TAYLOR: Thanks for the beer.
TOM: Don't mention it.
TAYLOR: I'll let you know if I land a good job. I know you're concerned about Yeh, well, I just wanted Lynn to know what she would've had ahead of
TOM: Yeh, well, I just wanted Lynn to know what she would've had ahead of
TOM: Stay away from her.
TAYLOR: ( smiling ) Suck my dick.
PEPPER: Lou wants to see you down at the office, Rick.
BROWN: C'mon in, Rick.
BROWN: Rick, I'm not gonna beat around the bush here. You got a great arm, one of the best I've ever seen, but your control hasn't come around like we hoped it would.
BROWN: Now, there are a lotta pitchers that started out wild and, after workin' it out in the minors, for a while, went on to great careers. Take Sandy Koufax there.
VAUGHN: What about Koufax?
BROWN: Never mind Koufax.
BROWN: Read these letters, starting at the
BROWN: Can't read it, can you?
VAUGHN: You gonna send me to the minors?
BROWN: CUT TO:
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
VAUGHN: These things make me look ridiculous.
TAYLOR: Drop in the bucket, Vaughn.
VAUGHN: What's that for?
CERRANO: Gin and cigarettes not enough for Jo- Buu. I still can no hit curva ball for sheet. I hafta make a sacrifice to him.
TAYLOR: Sacrifice? You mean like something Si. I kill unborn children.
CERRANO: Si. I kill unborn children.
HARRIS: Not while I'm here you're not. That's
BROWN: All right, let's hit the field.
HARRIS: Here's looking at ya, Jo-Buu.
HARRIS: strutting out of the dugout, feeling like a million bucks. As he emerges onto the field, a Hitter in the batting cage swings and misses, the bat slipping out of his hands. Away it flies, whirling off down the third base line in a wide arc. It hits Harris in the back of the head and knocks him watching the game from the dugout, a zip-lock baggie full of ice-cubes strapped to his head.
HARRIS: watching the game from the dugout, a zip-lock baggie full of ice-cubes strapped to his head.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
VAUGHAN: Vaughn, wearing his new glasses, paces the mound nervously. He goes to the rosin bag, wipes his brow, shakes out his arm. Finally up on the rubber, he gets the sign from Taylor, goes to his stretch, checks the runner and fires to the plate.
PEPPER: You want me to go get him?
BROWN: No, he's come this far. Let's see if he can finish it.
DOYLE: Vaughn in a little trouble here, but I'll tell ya, these Cleveland fans are great. Listen to them get behind
BOBBY: We need some defense here. Maybe we oughta do a wave.
JOHNNY: C'mon, Indians don't do waves. Let's keep this thing pure.
VIC: What harm could it do?
REXMAN: The next Oakland hitter, steps in. Taylor flashes a sign. Vaughn comes to the stretch and delivers. High, ball one. The runner on first goes down to second without a throw, the pitch being too tough to handle.
TAYLOR: Forget the runners, Ricky, get this guy at the plate.
DOYLE: High ball two, and the crowd doesn't like that call one bit.
TAYLOR: Okay, let's get nasty here, Rick. You know he's lookin' for this pitch. Gotta come up with somethin' studly.
VAUGHN: Fuckin' Dorn. Game shoulda been over by now. Dorn coulda had that ball. He tanked it on purpose.
TAYLOR: This isn't the California Penal League, Vaughn. We're professionals here. We don't tank a play for personal reasons, so cut the crybaby shit. You've pitched a helluva game. You wanna finish it, don't ya?
TAYLOR: Can you give me a strike on this Yeh, but I don't know if there'll be much on it. My arm feels like jello.
VAUGHN: Yeh, but I don't know if there'll be much on it. My arm feels like jello.
TAYLOR: Just make sure it's over the plate. I want him to swing.
VAUGHN: The last time I did that, the guy hit one that hasn't landed yet.
TAYLOR: Don't worry, I'll take care of it.
TAYLOR: By the way, I been meaning to ask you. Why'd you steal that car?
VAUGHN: I was bored.
TAYLOR: Next time you might think about takin' in a movie or somethin'.
TAYLOR: has settled in behind the plate now. He starts talking to the batter, Rexman.
TAYLOR: Helluva situation we got goin' here, huh, Rexman? Two on, two out, you're down by a run in the ninth. You got a chance to be a hero on national television, so whatever you do, don't blow it. They'll be callin' you a gutless choke artist all over America.
TAYLOR: You're a free agent at the end of the year. Not much demand for gutless choke artists. What are you hittin' now? .230? .240?
REXMAN: Hey, nice average. Uh oh, on second thought, that still means you got a seven outta ten chance of goin' in the dumper.
TAYLOR: Hey, nice average. Uh oh, on second thought, that still means you got a seven outta ten chance of goin' in the dumper.
REXMAN: Shut up, will ya, Taylor?
TAYLOR: Hey, I can understand not wantin' to talk about baseball when your nuts are in a vice like this.
TAYLOR: By the way, I saw your wife at the Capri Lounge last night. Hell of a dancer. You must be very proud.
TAYLOR: But that guy she was with. I mean I'm sure he's a close personal friend of yours and all, but tell me.
TAYLOR: .Why was he wearing her panties on his head?
TAYLOR: Uh oh, Rexie, I don't think that one's got the distance. Maybe if the wind comes up.
BROWN: It's startin' to come together, Pepper. It's startin' to come
SUZANNE: Oh hi, Jake, how are you?
TAYLOR: Fine, Suzanne, can I have a quick word with Rodger?
SUZANNE: Sure, c'mon in, he's in the den. I'll get some coffee.
DORN: Hey, Jake, old boy, what brings you out here?
TAYLOR: I just wanta tell ya somethin', but I didn't want to do it in front of the whole team.
DORN: Sure, go ahead.
TAYLOR: ( like nails ) I don't know what your problem is, ( bending close to Dorn ) .if I ever see you tank another play like you did tonight, I'll cut off your nuts and stuff 'em down your fuckin' throat.
SUZANNE: Coffee anybody?
HAYES: Why the hell are we havin' practice during the All-Star break?
TAYLOR: I heard the Big Lady upstairs ordered It's hotter than shit in here. What happened to the air conditioning?
VAUGHN: It's hotter than shit in here. What happened to the air conditioning?
BROWN: ( to Dorn ) Oh man, this old body can use a soak.
DORN: Forget it. It's not workin' again.
BROWN: Damn it, I thought they were gonna replace this thing.
HARRIS: Hey, there's no hot water in here.
BROWN: She's at it again. I've had it with this nickel and dime stuff. I'm gonna get the Bitch on the phone.
RACHEL: You wanted to see the Bitch?
BROWN: Don't you think you oughta cover yourself with a towel first, Mr. There aren't any towels, and I'm too old to be diving under benches.
RACHEL: Don't you think you oughta cover yourself with a towel first, Mr. There aren't any towels, and I'm too old to be diving under benches.
BROWN: There aren't any towels, and I'm too old to be diving under benches.
RACHEL: Well, I can take it if you can.
BROWN: What happened to the new whirlpool we were supposed to get?
RACHEL: Revenue problems have forced us to cut back on equipment. We'll simply have to fix the old one.
BROWN: You fixed it six times already. And now there's no hot water in the The pipes in this building are old and rusted. We're replacing them, but it's a long, expensive process.
RACHEL: The pipes in this building are old and rusted. We're replacing them, but it's a long, expensive process.
BROWN: How am I supposed to keep my players healthy with cold water and no therapy Your players will just have to get a little tougher. What are they, a bunch of pansies?
RACHEL: Your players will just have to get a little tougher. What are they, a bunch of pansies?
BROWN: Over 162 games even tough guys get sprains, sore arms, muscle pulls.
RACHEL: It's only temporary. Besides, these guys weren't playing that good when the equipment was workin'. If I could get anybody to come and watch this team, none of this would be necessary. You oughta be grateful I can still pay your salaries.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
FARMER: In case you haven't noticed, and judging by attendance, you haven't, the Indians, that thought-to-be hopeless collection of has-been's and never-will-be's is actually approaching the .500 mark, and with it, semi-respectability. Nothing to write home about, to be sure, but at least we don't have to cover our
VIC: Ya know, they could be a lot worse.
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE: Ya know, I may have underestimated this team a bit.
LONGSHOREMAN: Ya know, these guys aren't so fuckin'
GROUNDSKEEPER: ( in subtitles ) They're still shitty.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
TAYLOR: Ah shit, here comes Lou. Gimme a break, Mel. I gotta get outta here.
WINGO: All right, kick some dirt on me. The Commissioner'll buy that.
TAYLOR: Right. Good idea.
BROWN: ( to Wingo ) Hey, don't you go anywhere. I wanna have a few words with you.
BROWN: ( under his breath ) What are we arguin' about here?
TAYLOR: ( struggling as if he wanted to get at Wingo ) Fucker called that a ball.
BROWN: You mean the one that was a foot
TAYLOR: Taylor breaks away and starts back to the dugout. Playing it to the hilt, he throws his glove and mask to the ground on the way. Meanwhile, Brown is going jaw to jaw with Wingo, outraged at the call. Brown pulls a carrot out of his back pocket, and offers it to Wingo, who immediately thumbs him out.
LYNN: leaving her seat and starting up the aisle. Taylor comes up the stairs from the locker room, still in full uniform. He emerges onto the box level to see Lynn disappearing down the ramp toward the parking lot.
LYNN: in the parking lot. As she goes to unlock her car, Taylor looks around hurriedly for some kind of vehicle to follow her in. He bangs on the bullpen gates and is admitted by the guard. Inside is the Bullpen car, a souped-up golf cart with a body shaped like a batting helmet. Taylor hops in and roars out after Lynn.
TAYLOR: You still got that great kick. Just like the first time I ever saw you.
LYNN: You follow me here too?
TAYLOR: Yeh, what did you want to see me What do you mean?
LYNN: What do you mean?
TAYLOR: You wouldn't have been at the game if you didn't want to see me about I just wanted to see you play.
LYNN: ( getting out of the pool ) I just wanted to see you play.
TAYLOR: How was I?
LYNN: You looked good, but you oughta open your stance a little. They're pitching you inside.
TAYLOR: I'll try that. You wanna have some Sorry, I already ate.
LYNN: Sorry, I already ate.
TAYLOR: Right. I forgot your life is different Thanks for the race.
LYNN: ( getting out of the pool ) Thanks for the race.
TAYLOR: ( watching her go )
TAYLOR: Whose place are we at this time?
LYNN: ( flustered ) Mine. You follow me again?
TAYLOR: Yeh. When I saw you at the game, I figured you wanted to see me about I just wanted to see you play.
LYNN: I just wanted to see you play.
TAYLOR: How was I?
LYNN: You looked good, but you oughta open your stance a little. They're pitchin' you inside.
TAYLOR: I'll try that.
LYNN: I think I oughta tell you that I'm moving in with Tom.
TAYLOR: Goin' uptown, huh?
LYNN: I'm not goin' uptown, I just want to lead a regular life. You know, like an adult maybe. With a house and a garden and normal hours.
TAYLOR: You think I can't lead a regular You like the life you've had, Jake. You like hangin' out with the boys, livin' in hotels, eatin' dinner at midnight, having girls send you their underwear in the mail. Remember the surprise party I threw for you when you made the All-Star team? You never showed up, but the doorbell rang once and we all got quiet and hid behind the furniture. It was a guy to serve you with a paternity suit.
LYNN: You like the life you've had, Jake. You like hangin' out with the boys, livin' in hotels, eatin' dinner at midnight, having girls send you their underwear in the mail. Remember the surprise party I threw for you when you made the All-Star team? You never showed up, but the doorbell rang once and we all got quiet and hid behind the furniture. It was a guy to serve you with a paternity suit.
TAYLOR: That was a hoax. The girl was just trying to get some publicity.
LYNN: Yes, but you had obviously been with her. And it happened in front of all our friends.
TAYLOR: I was drownin', Lynn. The endorsements were dryin' up, my knees were goin', they were talkin' about sendin' me down. I was just trying to hold on to somethin', prove to myself I was still an All-Star. I don't care about that anymore. I know I don't have much time left in baseball. I'm just a guy trying to put his life back together. Thinkin' about you was the only thing that kept me goin' in
LYNN: I've come back to you too many times, Jake. I can't afford to believe you I guess this is our last hurrah then.
TAYLOR: I guess this is our last hurrah then.
LYNN: I guess so. Did you really read "Moby Cover to cover.
TAYLOR: Cover to cover.
TAYLOR: When's the wedding?
LYNN: October third.
TAYLOR: Your mom and dad like this guy?
LYNN: You're still their favorite.
TAYLOR: Gonna be a big wedding?
LYNN: Tom doesn't like big weddings. You coulda read Plot Outlines of 101 Great Novels.
TAYLOR: At any library.
LYNN: At any library.
TAYLOR: I mean the wedding.
LYNN: All Saints on Euclid.
TAYLOR: Nice church.
LYNN: Yeh. Who saved Ishmael at the end?
TAYLOR: Nobody. It was Queequeg's coffin. Am I invited?
LYNN: To the wedding.
TAYLOR: To the wedding.
LYNN: If you want. Maybe you really did read it.
LYNN: This doesn't change anything, you know. We were always good at this.
TAYLOR: The zipper on your skirt is stuck.
LYNN: The zipper on your skirt is stuck.
TAYLOR: The zipper on your skirt is stuck.
LYNN: Use your imagination.
RACHEL: Well, my worst fears have been confirmed. We're 60 and 60, nine games out of first, and only two out of the first division. Who do those guys think they are?
DONOVAN: Maybe you just have to accept the fact that they're not as bad as you'd I don't have to accept anything. Our attendance is only beginning to rise. If we can force a losing streak for a week or two, we can still turn this thing around. The fans are used to losers here. At the first sign of a slump they'll give up on this team.
RACHEL: I don't have to accept anything. Our attendance is only beginning to rise. If we can force a losing streak for a week or two, we can still turn this thing around. The fans are used to losers here. At the first sign of a slump they'll give up on this team.
DONOVAN: What's left to do? You've taken away everything you can.
RACHEL: Not everything.
TEMPLE: Memo says we'll only be usin' this for short trips.
BROWN: Good thing we don't play anybody in Can I borrow one of those, man? They don't have any magazines on this Sure, go ahead. I think my reading days are over.
HAYES: Can I borrow one of those, man? They don't have any magazines on this Sure, go ahead. I think my reading days are over.
TAYLOR: Sure, go ahead. I think my reading days are over.
HAYES: Macbeth. This a good one?
TAYLOR: ( pointing to his stack of Classics ) These are all Hall of Famers.
HAYES: ( to Dorn ) I'll trade you Song of Hiawatha for The Deerslayer.
DORN: Naw, I'm not into Song of Hiawatha.
HAYES: All right then, how about Crime and Yeh, that sounds pretty good. That's a detective story, right?
DORN: Yeh, that sounds pretty good. That's a detective story, right?
HAYES: INT. INDIAN EXPRESS - NIGHT The bus slows down and pulls over to the curb.
DRIVER: This is it. The Sheffield Arms.
BROWN: I don't know if we can survive any more of these economy measures.
VOICE: Hey, jailbird!
TAYLOR: ( throwing the ball back ) C'mon, Rick baby, settle down.
SHOTS: of the THIRD HITTER lining a double down the right field line, the FOURTH HITTER a triple off the center field wall, and the FIFTH HITTER a single to right. The scoreboard now reads 4 to 0 Yankees. Taylor comes out to talk to Vaughn.
TAYLOR: What's the problem, Rick? You're throwin' basketballs up there. That guy in the dugout botherin' you?
VAUGHN: Naw, I'm all right.
TAYLOR: Forget him. Worry about the guys carryin' bats. C'mon, Ricky, let's get nasty.
BROWN: I thought now that Vaughn had some control, he was ready for the Yankees.
PEPPER: Not quite yet.
DOYLE: in the press box. The stadium below is empty, the grounds crew covering the infield.
DOYLE: Well, the Indians made a gallant comeback today, but fell one run short as the Yankees held on for a 6- 5 victory, although they didn't do squat after the first inning. Anyway, if the bus makes it here from the hotel we'll be on at 7:30 tomorrow night. Till then, this is Harry Doyle, saying so long, everybody, and Happy
DONOVAN: Mind if I join you?
BROWN: ( surprised to see him ) Donovan. Hell no. What are you doin' Just wanted to get out on the road. You damn near pulled one out today.
DONOVAN: Just wanted to get out on the road. You damn near pulled one out today.
BROWN: Someday we'll figure out how to beat those guys.
DONOVAN: Ya know, you've done a helluva job this year.
BROWN: Sixty and sixty-one is hardly a helluva job.
DONOVAN: With this club it is.
BROWN: Ya know, when I first got to camp I figured this team had no chance. I was just hopin' we'd win enough that I could stay on and really start to build something here. But there's a lotta talent on this club, Charlie. The veterans are starting to play back to form and the rookies are developing faster than I thought. There's two or three potential all- stars in there. I think we're a first division team right now.
DONOVAN: You really believe that, don't you?
BROWN: I know it. All we need is something to bring it all together.
DONOVAN: Rachel Phelps would never allow that.
BROWN: What do you mean?
DONOVAN: She doesn't want you in the first division. She doesn't even want you in Cleveland.
BROWN: ( addressing the group ) I got somethin' I think you oughta know about. I wouldn't have known about it myself if Charlie Donovan hadn't told me, although I shoulda guessed it from everything that's happened. It seems that Mrs. Phelps doesn't think too highly of our worth.
BROWN: She put this team together because she thought we'd be bad enough to finish dead last, knockin' attendance down to the point where she could move the team to Miami. And get rid of all of us for better
DORN: Even me?
BROWN: Even you, Dorn.
HAYES: In other words, Phelps thinks we're all dinks. That we don't belong in the big leagues.
BROWN: That's about it.
HARRIS: What if we don't finish last?
BROWN: She'll replace you with somebody who will. After this season, you'll all be sent back to the minors or given your outright release. So, all we're gonna get is this one
TAYLOR: I don't know about the rest of you, but I've been playin' baseball since I was five years old. I've had some good years and some years to forget. I've burned out my knees. I don't think I have three fingers that work right. I've lost most of the money I made and baseball has messed up my personal life from time to time. But I know one thing. I can still play this game a little. And I'd like to know who in this room thinks they're the kinda bum Mrs. Phelps is lookin'
TAYLOR: Well, then, I guess there's only one thing to do.
DORN: What's that?
TAYLOR: Win the whole fuckin' thing.
MONTAGE SEQUENCE: detailing the newly-motivated Indians' drive for the pennant and the "Pennant Fever" it creates in Cleveland. We begin hanging a full size blowup of Rachel Phelps on the locker room wall. In the picture she's pointing as if out at the players, and a bubble above her head says, "YOU GUYS STINK!" A set of designer clothes, of the type Rachel wears, have been superimposed on the picture. The clothes are divided into 32 pull-off squares.
BROWN: hanging a full size blowup of Rachel Phelps on the locker room wall. In the picture she's pointing as if out at the players, and a bubble above her head says, "YOU GUYS STINK!" A set of designer clothes, of the type Rachel wears, have been superimposed on the picture. The clothes are divided into 32 pull-off squares.
BROWN: I figure it's gonna take 32 more victories to win this thing. Every time we win, we peel a square.
HAYES: coming out of an elevator in the Turk, with a wheelbarrow full of dirt. We pan him down the hall, where we see a dirt sliding area he's been building up.
HAYES: leading off a makeshift base in the hall of the Turk. As Vaughn tosses a ball up in the air, Hayes takes off down the hall toward another base on the dirt sliding area. Vaughn catches the ball and rifles a throw down to Taylor, who puts the tag on the sliding Hayes. Cerrano, who's umping, calls Hayes out. Hayes jumps up and argues vociferously, hopping around in frustration.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
PEPPER: hitting one rocket-shot ground ball after another at Dorn. Some bounce off his chest and arms, but Dorn stays in front of every one.
DORN: taking off his shirt in the locker room. His chest is a mass of welts and bruises.
CERRANO: "polishing" his bats with black shoe polish and a brush.
TAYLOR: taking batting practice late at night. He attacks the ball swing after swing.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
VAUGHN: taking his stretch with a man on first, and firing to the plate. The Batter swings and misses for strike three, while the Runner on first breaks for second. TAYLOR rifles a throw down to second nailing the Runner for a double play.
DORN: taking a hot smash off his chest. He picks it up and guns the runner down.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
HAYES: stealing home, as the opposing Pitcher tries frantically to hurry his windup. Hayes slides across safely, hooking to the infield side. He jumps up and punches the air with his fist.
HAYES: nailing up the pair of black gloves he used to steal home above his bed.
NEWSPAPER HEADLINE: "INDIANS WIN FIFTH STRAIGHT, CRACK FIRST DIVISION" EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT Ross Farmer, microphone in hand, stands in front of a blazing bonfire. A large crowd cheers as various people throw doormats on the blaze.
FARMER: ( to TV camera ) You remember bra burning in the '70's, well, the newest thing in Cleveland is doormat burning as Indian fans are standing up and saying "We won't be stepped on anymore".
RACHEL: with Donovan next to her, watching all this good play in AN ANGEL HITTER lining a single to center. Cerrano charges it and fires to the plate as a Runner tries to score from second. Just as Taylor catches the ball, he's once again knocked flat by the Runner. This time he lies still a beat, and then an arm comes up holding the ball. The Umpire thumbs the Runner out.
TAYLOR: late at night, sitting head-down in the outboard motor whirlpool. He's hurting.
THE EXECUTIVE: inside his office. He opens his desk drawer and pulls out an earplug. He's also listening to the game.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
NEWSPAPER HEADLINE: "INDIANS SWEEP ORIOLES, MOVE INTO SECOND." SERIES OF SHOTS of squares of leopard skin fabric being peeled away. Under one is revealed a section of bare hip and thigh. Under another, a navel. Under still another, the edge of a bare breast and arm.
TEAM: ( in unison ) Hello, do you know us?
TAYLOR: We're a Major League baseball team, but since we haven't won a pennant in thirty years, nobody recognizes us, not even in our own hometown.
VAUGHN: That's why we carry the American Express card. No matter how far out of first we are, it keeps us from getting shut out at our favorite hotels and restaurants.
CERRANO: So if you're looking for some big league clout, apply for the little green home run hitter.
TAYLOR: Look what it's done for us. People still don't recognize us, but. .we're in the first division now.
HAYES: sliding across home plate in his tuxedo and stopping IN FRAME. He holds up an American Express card in a black-gloved hand.
HAYES: The American Express card. Don't steal home without it.
TAYLOR: swinging and hitting a home run into the left field seats.
HAYES: nailing up another pair of gloves above his head. There are a lot of them up there now.
CERRANO: hitting a prodigious home run onto the roof.
DONOVAN: standing up to cheer Cerrano's homer, then remembering he's with Rachel. He sits down apologetically. Rachel watches the events on the field with a face of cold steel.
TAYLOR: hitting a double into the right centerfield alley with two runners on. Hayes, the trailing runner, catches up with the lead runner, and they reach the plate at about the same time, one sliding around the Catcher one way, one around the other. Both score as the Catcher tries to tag both and gets neither.
TV SCREEN: The program in progress is suddenly interrupted by a Sports- Break logo appearing on the screen.
VOICE: We interrupt this program to bring you the following special bulletin.
ROSS FARMER: live outside the Indian's locker room. He wears a headdress, warpaint, and a Wild Thing T-shirt.
FARMER: Good evening, everybody. The incredible has happened. The Indians have finished the regular season in a first place tie with the New York Yankees on the strength of a 4-2 win over the Tigers in Detroit today. There will be a one-game playoff here in Cleveland the day after tomorrow to decide the Eastern Division Championship, the Indians having won the coin flip held just moments ago in the American League office. We'll have further details on the news at 11, but for now, get your tomahawks ready, Cleveland.
HAYES: Hey, not bad for a has-been and a We haven't won anything yet. We still got one more to go.
TAYLOR: We haven't won anything yet. We still got one more to go.
DORN: Hey, Taylor, there's a coupla drop- dead Annies outside. One of 'em says she used to know you pretty good. Brunette, great rack.
TAYLOR: Yeh. What doya say we chat 'em up?
DORN: Yeh. What doya say we chat 'em up?
TAYLOR: ( without much enthusiasm ) I don't know.
DORN: C'mon, you're not gonna keep moonin' over that library chick, are you? Forget her, she's gone.
CHARLES: The Indians are spending the night in Detroit and will bus back to Cleveland in the morning. We're going to go back now to Ross Farmer who's standing by at the Hotel Stanley where the Indians are staying in Detroit. Ross?
FARMER: Thank you, Hal. As you can see, the Indians are in high spirits tonight, looking forward to their showdown with the Yankees. Who will start that game is still a matter of some
DARLA: You still got that black Corvette? The one that the sound system took up the whole trunk?
TAYLOR: No, I had to sell it.
DARLA: I thought they gave them to ya.
TAYLOR: Not after your knees go bad.
DARLA: That's all right, you'll be gettin' a new one now.
TAYLOR: Darla, I don't think I can do this.
DARLA: What do you mean? We did this between innings once.
TAYLOR: I guess I'm just not that guy anymore.
DARLA: ( resigned ) Happens to the best of them sooner or later. What's her name?
DARLA: So long, Jake. Too bad. I was gonna devote a whole chapter to you in my
LYNN: Excuse me. I was in town for a conference and thought I'd drop by, but I can see you're busy.
TAYLOR: Lynn, wait.
TAYLOR: running down the stairs and into the lobby. Seeing no sign of Lynn, he races out the front door to see her pulling out in a taxi. He can only stand and watch her disappear into the night.
VAUGHN: You wanted to see me?
BROWN: Yeh, Rick. I just wanted to tell you that I'm startin' Harris tomorrow against the Yankees, even though it's your turn in the rotation.
BROWN: He's got more experience and a little better record against the Yankees.
VAUGHN: Yeh, sure. Whatever's best for the Don't read anything into it, Rick. You're one of the guys that got us Yeh, okay.
BROWN: Don't read anything into it, Rick. You're one of the guys that got us Yeh, okay.
VAUGHN: Yeh, okay.
VOICE: You mind if I join you?
VAUGHN: I don't think I'd be very good company Why not?
SUZANNE: Why not?
VAUGHN: Nothin'. Job problem.
VAUGHN: I'm, ah, a ball player.
SUZANNE: I know, but that's not why I came over. I don't chase ball players.
VAUGHN: Why did you come over then?
SUZANNE: Because you're the sexiest man I've ever laid eyes on, and you look like you could use a. friend.
VAUGHN: Where you goin'?
SUZANNE: I've gotta get home.
VAUGHN: I didn't even get your name.
SUZANNE: Suzanne. Suzanne Dorn
VAUGHN: ( having heard that name someplace before ) Suzanne Dorn?
SUZANNE: Mrs. Suzanne Dorn. So long. You're a great kid.
SUZANNE: ( nonchalant ) Hello, Jake.
TAYLOR: Hello, Suzanne.
TAYLOR: Vaughn is sitting on his bed in a state of disbelief.
VAUGHN: I swear to God I didn't know who she
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
THE LIMO: pulling up outside the church. Lynn is helped out of the car by her Father. As she starts up the steps, she sees that both sides are lined by the entire Cleveland Indians team in uniform. They form an arch of bats as she passes. At the top of the steps is Taylor. Lynn stops as her father ushers her mother on into the church.
TAYLOR: You look beautiful.
LYNN: Thank you. I didn't think you'd come.
TAYLOR: I can't stay. We gotta get to the park.
LYNN: Good luck today, Jake.
TAYLOR: Yeh, you too. Tell me one thing. The night you came up to my hotel was there really a library conference?
LYNN: No, I came to see you.
TAYLOR: Too bad it didn't work out better. I just wanna say I'm sorry for all the things I've put you through over the Even for last night?
LYNN: Even for last night?
TAYLOR: Can't be sorry for that. Nothing
LYNN: Then you weren't defending my honor I didn't have to. She knew she was
TAYLOR: I didn't have to. She knew she was
RACHEL: Come in.
RACHEL: Hello, Lou, what can I do for ya?
BROWN: I wanted to hand in my resignation before you had a chance to fire me.
RACHEL: What do you mean?
BROWN: I know what you been tryin' to do with this team. After the season, I want no part of it.
RACHEL: Well, I knew I could count on Charlie to tell somebody. I was just afraid he might take too long.
BROWN: Why would you want him to tell So you'd tell the team, hopefully getting them mad enough to knock themselves out trying to prove they belonged in this league. I think it You tryin' to make me believe you wanted us to win all along?
RACHEL: So you'd tell the team, hopefully getting them mad enough to knock themselves out trying to prove they belonged in this league. I think it You tryin' to make me believe you wanted us to win all along?
BROWN: You tryin' to make me believe you wanted us to win all along?
BROWN: Bullshit. What about the plane, the bus, the bad hotels.
RACHEL: We were broke. We couldn't afford anything better. Donald left the team nearly bankrupt. If we'd had another losing season, I would have had to sell the team. I knew we couldn't win with the team we had, so I decided to bring in new players and see how they'd do with the proper motivation. There was never any offer from Miami. I made it all up.
BROWN: Why should I believe any of this? Now that we're winnin' it's easy for you to jump on the bandwagon.
RACHEL: If I'd really wanted you to lose, all I had to do was send the best players back to the minors. But I didn't, did I?
RACHEL: You think this was all an accident? I personally scouted every member of this team, except Hayes, of course. He was a surprise. They all had flaws which concealed their real talent, or I wouldn't have been able to get them. But I knew if anyone could straighten them out, you could. And if you tell them any of this, I will fire you.
RACHEL: I love this team, Lou. Go get 'em
TAYLOR: I don't know what Dorn's wife is up to, but I think it'd be best if you dressed early and got out to the bullpen before Dorn comes in.
HAYES: ( to Taylor ) We got a problem. Cerrano wants some extra power for tonight. He's lookin' to sacrifice a live chicken. We can't have people pukin' in the locker room before the game.
TAYLOR: Tell him not to worry, I'll take care of it.
DORN: Bye bye, honey, wish me luck.
SUZANNE: Before you go, there's something I wanta tell you.
DOYLE: In the press box.
COLORMAN: Here's your bourbon.
DOYLE: Won't need it tonight.
DORN: You know where Vaughn is?
TAYLOR: Nope. Haven't seen him.
DORN: Let me know if you do. I wanna have a little talk with him.
CERRANO: Where's my chicken?
TAYLOR: It's comin' in now.
TAYLOR: One whole chicken, like you said.
CERRANO: But it no alive.
TAYLOR: Believe me, Jo-Buu will like this. He's gotta be gettin' tired of raw
HARRIS: warming up in the bullpen. The tension of starting such an important game shows in his face.
DOYLE: Hello, everybody, Harry Doyle bidding you a Wahoo welcome from beautiful Municipal Stadium, where tonight before a capacity crowd of 75,000 screaming featherheads, the braves of the Cuyahoga will leave their teepees in search of Cleveland's first League Championship in over 30 years. Standing in the way, their long time nemesis, the New York Yankees, the Big Boys of Broadway, who have beaten the Indians like a tom-tom all year long.
BROWN: All right, guys, let's take it to
HARRIS: Throwing the first pitch. The YANKEE HITTER grounds one to Dorn who throws him out.
THE SCOREBOARD: 0-0 in the 3rd.
CERRANO: striking out on a curve ball.
HAYES: robbing a Yankee of a home run by making a leaping catch over the fence.
TAYLOR: picking a Yankee runner off first.
THE SCOREBOARD: 0-0 in the 5th.
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
CERRANO: striking out on a curve ball, trying to check his swing. Umpire emphatically punches him out.
DOYLE: Looking past him to the field. Harris is on the mound. There's a runner on second.
DOYLE: Still nothing nothing, top of the seventh, two down. Harris has been in trouble all night, but has battled his way out with the help of some great defensive plays.
RACHEL: Donovan is a little confused by this. Burton trots around the bases and is greeted by jubilant teammates at the plate. A silent pall falls on the stadium. As the "2" goes up on the scoreboard, we.
HAYES: popping up and flinging his bat away in frustration. We take CUTS of the worried fans, chewing fingernails, wadding up programs, hanging their heads, etc.
TAYLOR: grounding out, obviously having trouble running. We take CUTS of worried faces on the bench.
DORN: stepping into the batter's box. The crowd is practically sitting on its hands now. Hope draining away.
BROWN: Damn, havin' trouble with the curve ball again.
HAYES: We should've gotten him a live
CERRANO: I pissed off now, Jo-Buu. I good to you, I stand up for you. If you no help me now, I say fuck you, Jo-Buu. I do it myself.
DOYLE: Long drive, deep centerfield. Way back. It might be. It could be. The ball is. Downtown, welcome to the Happy Hunting Ground. The game is
DOYLE: Two down in the top of the ninth, still tied at 2, Harris working on an eight-hitter.
YANKEE HITTER: lining a single to right field. Harris mops his brow, obviously tiring.
HARRIS: on the mound, looking like he's out of gas.
BROWN: ( taking the ball from Harris ) You pitched a hell of a game, Steve. Take a seat and we'll see if we can get this guy for ya.
BROWN: Give me Vaughn.
TAYLOR: ( surprised ) You want Vaughn?
BROWN: I know he hasn't done real well against this guy, but I got a hunch he's due.
VAUGHAN: striding in from the bullpen. He doesn't look relaxed. As he nears the infield he purposely doesn't look at Dorn. Dorn stares at him with undisguised venom. As Vaughan gets to the mound, he sees Patton getting his convict uniform on in the Yankee dugout. He looks away to see Haywood in the on-deck circle smiling out at him. Meanwhile, the CROWD has gone nuts at the sight of Vaughn. Bobby, Vic and Johnny are blasting out "Wild Thing" on the tom-toms and the whole stadium, 75,000 strong, is singing it. Doyle just pushes the mic forward and lets the crowd do it's work.
BROWN: Okay, Ricky, Haywood likes the hard stuff in. Curve him on the hands, bust him away, and don't get up with anything. You listenin' to me Rick?
BROWN: ( Patting him on the butt ) O.K., kid, you're my man. Let's go get him.
TAYLOR: C'mon Ricky, this guy is the out you been waitin' your whole life for.
DOYLE: O.K. Vaughn has finished his warmup and we're ready to.
TAYLOR: ( seeing it ) Oh, shit.
DORN: Let's cut through the crap. I only got one thing to say to you. Just rear back and strike this motherfucker
TAYLOR: All right, Ricky, let's get nasty.
TAYLOR: ( to Haywood ) All right, looks like the boy is pumped. Sucker was movin', wasn't it? Ever hit ya, it'd leave a two foot hole comin' out.
TAYLOR: ( for Haywood's ears ) Let's see, what should we call now. Let's see how he feels about old number one.
TAYLOR: Nice swing, Haywood. Good follow- through. Keep it up, I'll show you the ball sometime.
BROWN: Forget the curveball. Go with the Well, shit, all these pitches to choose from. Maybe we'll try somethin' different this time.
TAYLOR: Well, shit, all these pitches to choose from. Maybe we'll try somethin' different this time.
TAYLOR: And if I don't see you again, Haywood, have a nice winter. Okay, buddy? Oh, Lordy, three straight heaters and the Yankees are blown down. No runs, two hits, three left on, and, are you ready, Cleveland? We go to the bottom of the ninth, still tied at two.
DOYLE: ( to his color man ) Can you believe this, Monty?
OMIT: Sequence omitted from original script.
HAYES: walking up to the plate.
DOYLE: Duke leads the league in saves, strikeouts per inning and nose hairs.
BROWN: Ya know I'd be an ass not to pinch- hit for you here. You're 0 for 18 against Duke. Plus you're beat to shit you can hardly walk, there's no way you can get around on this guy's fast ball. So I want the absolute truth here. Can you beat this guy?
TAYLOR: Taylor starts for the plate, as Duke finishes his warmups. Brown comes down the dugout steps.
BROWN: Taylor starts for the plate, as Duke finishes his warmups. Brown comes down the dugout steps.
BROWN: ( to Pepper ) Send Hayes the first pitch. I don't want Taylor takin' too many strikes.
PEPPER: What's he doing?
BROWN: Flashing some signals. That's a hell of an idea.
THE LONGSHOREMEN: and several of their friends at their bar, huddled around the RADIO with the punks and heavy metal kids we saw before. Slowly they begin to clap in time with the tom-toms which are audible on the T.V.
THE STADIUM: Everything from here on will continue to be in SLOW MOTION. As Duke whips his arm toward the plate, Hayes takes off for third. Taylor, instead of swinging away, shortens up on the bat and bunts Duke's pitch down the third base line. The Yankee third baseman, caught completely unaware, charges the ball frantically.
TAYLOR: barreling down the line toward first on his sore legs, giving it everything he's got.
TAYLOR: pounding down the line. He strains for the bag as the Yankee first baseman stretches to his limit for the throw. Taylor and the ball arrive at almost the same time. Taylor hits the bag and then sprawls in the dirt as his knees give out. The umpire brings up his arms, and spreads them wide. Safe. Taylor's beaten it. The first baseman looks up to see something that strikes fear into his heart across the field. It's.
HAYES: streaking for home, trying to score all the way from second on a bunt. The first baseman fires to the plate, as the catcher positions himself for the throw. Hayes launches into a flying feet- first slide. The catcher brings the tag down. Hayes hooks to the outside, his trailing foot reaching for the plate.
DOYLE: .Safe. The Indians win it. The Indians win. Oh my God, the Indians win it!!
QUICK CUTS: of our other fans. We see. A ) The Business Executive stand up and yell "Yes!" in the middle of the opera. Several other men stand up and express their excitement as well. B ) The Longshoremen whoop it up in their bar exchanging fives and hugs with the punkers and heavy metal kids. C ) The various apartment dwellers dancing, clapping, yelling out the windows. D ) The two Korean Groundskeepers just shaking their heads in E ) Elsewhere in the stadium, the joyous exultation continues unabated. The crowd pours onto the field as Hayes runs toward Taylor and literally leaps into his arms. F ) The two spin around throwing their fists in the air. G ) Cerrano and Harris embrace. Dorn gives Vaughn a hug, then steps back and decks him with a right hand. H ) Dorn pulls Vaughn back to his feet, and they hug again. I ) Up in the stands, Rachel watches all this with tears in her eyes. Taylor starts off the field when he sees something that catches his eye. Standing by the field rail is Lynn. She holds up her left hand and smiles. There's no ring on it. Taylor races over to her as she jumps down from the rail and hugs herself to him. We HOLD on the celebration as it swirls all around them, and.
ROLL CREDITS: THE END
THE END: Writers : David S. Ward
