BY: Ethan Coen & Joel Coen
FRANK: Says here that the Russians exploded n A-bomb and there's not a damn thing we can do about it.
ED: How d'ya like them apples? Russians exploded an A-bomb.
FRANK: How d'ya like them apples? Russians exploded an A-bomb.
FRANK: Russians exploded an A-bomb.
ED: Russians exploded an A-bomb.
FRANK: Russians exploded an A-bomb.
ED: ( shaking his head ) Now, being a barber is a lot like being a barman or a soda-jerk; there's not much to it once you've learned the basic moves. For the kids there's the Butch, or the Heinie.
FRANK: ( shaking his head ) Now, being a barber is a lot like being a barman or a soda-jerk; there's not much to it once you've learned the basic moves. For the kids there's the Butch, or the Heinie.
THE DOOR: Ed opens it to reveal a large man in a suit and his demure, bird-like wife.
DAVE: How ya doin', Ed?
ED: OK. Take your coat, Ann?
DINNER TABLE: The two couples are in the middle of the meal.
DAVE: Japs had us pinned down in Buna for something like six weeks. Well, I gotta tell ya, I thought we had it tough, but, Jesus, we had supply. They were eating grubs, nuts, thistles. When we finally up and bust off the beach we found Arnie Bragg, kid missing on recon; the Japs had eaten the sonofabitch, if you'll pardon the, uh. And this was a scrawny, pimply kid too, nothin' to write home about. I mean, I never would've, ya know, so what do I say, honey? When I don't like dinner, what do I say?
DAVE: .I say, Jesus, honey, Arnie Bragg
DAVE: .Arnie Braggagain?!
DAVE: .Were you in the service, Ed?
ED: No, Dave, I wasn't.
DORIS: Ed was 4F on account of his fallen Mm, that's tough.
DAVE: Mm, that's tough.
FRONT PORCH: Ed is standing alone on the porch, watching the sun go down. Crickets chirp. From inside the house we hear laughter and clattering dishes.
DAVE: Holding down the porch area? .That's quite a wife you got there.
DAVE: .That's quite a wife you got there.
ED: She's a rare one.
DAVE: She's a rare one.
ED: How's business, Dave?
DAVE: Couldn't be better. These're boom times in retailing. We're opening another store, Big Dave's Annex, there on Garson. This is strictly haberdasherycasual wear, pyjamas, ladies' foundations and undergarments. Matter of fact, I'm thinking of making Doris the comptroller. How're things at the, uh, the barbershop?
ED: All right, I guess.
DAVE: .Fine. Fine. Well, you might want to drop by the Annex when we open, update your suit'course, you're in the smock all day.
DAVE: .Say, where do you get those things Specialty store down in Sacramento.
ED: Specialty store down in Sacramento.
DAVE: There is a silence. At length, gazing out at the lawn, Big Dave clears his throat.
CHURCH: ED ( V.O. )
CALLER: I. seven.
CALLER: .Bee. Four.
DORIS: Watch your card, honey.
CALLER: I. sixteen.
CALLER: Gee. nine.
DORIS: Jesus, bingoBINGO!
BARBERSHOP: Sun slants in through the big window at the end of the day. Ed sweeps hair trimmings, looking intently down at the floor, a cigarette dangling from his lip. Frank sits on one of the vinyl waiting chairs, talking at Ed's back.
FRANK: .so you tie your own flies, Ed. I mean, if you're really serious. You tie your own flies, you do aI know it's matickless, I know, people say, hey, you can buy flies at the store but you can buy your fish at the store, Ed, you see what I'm saying?
ED: The point is there's a certain art to the process. The point is not merely to provide, and let me point out, these fish are not as dumb as you might think.
FRANK: The point is there's a certain art to the process. The point is not merely to provide, and let me point out, these fish are not as dumb as you might think.
ED: Sportsmanship! That's my point. June fly, Ed? Mosquito? Which of these? Well, what fish do you seek?
FRANK: Sportsmanship! That's my point. June fly, Ed? Mosquito? Which of these? Well, what fish do you seek?
ED: Sure, go to the store. Go there, describe to the man where you will be fishing, and for what, and the weather conditions, sun, no sun, whatnot, and so forth, and then you might as well have the man go ahead and sell you the goddamn FISH, Ed.
FRANK: Sure, go to the store. Go there, describe to the man where you will be fishing, and for what, and the weather conditions, sun, no sun, whatnot, and so forth, and then you might as well have the man go ahead and sell you the goddamn FISH, Ed.
FRANK: .My point is, this is a man who knows nothing no matter how much you tell him, so sell him the goddamn FISH, Ed. OK, boys, which of you gets the We're just closing, friend.
MAN: OK, boys, which of you gets the We're just closing, friend.
FRANK: We're just closing, friend.
MAN: Oh, happy days! I wish I was doing well enough to turn away business! More power to ya, brother! The public be damned!
FRANK: Hey, what's your problem, friend? This is a business establishment with posted hours
ED: I'll take care of him, go ahead, Frank. Have a seat, mister.
FRANK: .You sure, Eddie?
ED: Yeah, yeahgo home.
FRANK: In your ear, mister.
STRANGER: Oh, those fiery Mediterraneans. Say! Not so fast there, brother
STRANGER: .Pretty good, huh? Fools even the experts. 100 percent human hair, handcrafted by Jacques of San Francisco, and I'd hate to have to tell you what I paid for it.
ED: Yes, it's a nice rug. I'm paying for it down on the installment plan.
STRANGER: Yes, it's a nice rug. I'm paying for it down on the installment plan.
STRANGER: .A lot of folks live with the pate exposed. They say the dames think it's sexy. But for my money it's just not good groomingand grooming, my friend, is probably the most important thing in businessafter personality, of course.
STRANGER: .Creighton Tolliver, pleased to know ya.
ED: Ed Crane. What brings you to Santa A goose, friend. I was chasing a wild goose. Ed, have you ever heard of venture capital?
CREIGHTON: A goose, friend. I was chasing a wild goose. Ed, have you ever heard of venture capital?
ED: Well, it's the wildest goose there is. Risk money. Very speculative. Except, Ed, in certain situations, it's not, see? I thought I had a prospect here. Well, I make the haul up and this lousy so-and-so tells me his situation has changedall his capital's gonna be tied up in expansion plans of his own. Thank you, mother! Pop goes another bubble! It's only the biggest business opportunity since Henry Ford and I can't seem to interest a soul!
CREIGHTON: Well, it's the wildest goose there is. Risk money. Very speculative. Except, Ed, in certain situations, it's not, see? I thought I had a prospect here. Well, I make the haul up and this lousy so-and-so tells me his situation has changedall his capital's gonna be tied up in expansion plans of his own. Thank you, mother! Pop goes another bubble! It's only the biggest business opportunity since Henry Ford and I can't seem to interest a soul!
ED: That right.
CREIGHTON: It's called dry cleaning. You heard me right, brother, 'dry cleaning' wash without water, no suds, no tumble, no stress on the clothes. It's all done with chemicals, friend, and your garments end up crisp and fresh. And here's the capper: no That's right! Dry cleaningremember the name. It's going to revolutionize the laundry industry, and those that get in early are gonna bear the fruit away. All I need is $10,000 to open my first store, then I use its cash flow to finance another, and so on leap frog, bootstrap myself a whole chain. Well, me and a partner. Cleanliness, friend. There's money in it. There's a future. There's room to grow. Say, that's looking pretty good. Let's see it with the hairpiece on.
ED: That's right! Dry cleaningremember the name. It's going to revolutionize the laundry industry, and those that get in early are gonna bear the fruit away. All I need is $10,000 to open my first store, then I use its cash flow to finance another, and so on leap frog, bootstrap myself a whole chain. Well, me and a partner. Cleanliness, friend. There's money in it. There's a future. There's room to grow. Say, that's looking pretty good. Let's see it with the hairpiece on.
CREIGHTON: That's right! Dry cleaningremember the name. It's going to revolutionize the laundry industry, and those that get in early are gonna bear the fruit away. All I need is $10,000 to open my first store, then I use its cash flow to finance another, and so on leap frog, bootstrap myself a whole chain. Well, me and a partner. Cleanliness, friend. There's money in it. There's a future. There's room to grow. Say, that's looking pretty good. Let's see it with the hairpiece on.
BATHROOM DOORWAY: It is evening. Ed leans against the bathroom doorjamb contemplatively off, hands thrust into his pockets, a cigarette between his lips pluming smoke.
DORIS: She lifts one leg and rests the heel on the rim of the tub.
ED: She lifts one leg and rests the heel on the rim of the tub.
DORIS: Shave my legs, will ya?
DORIS: ( absently, as she reads ) Gimme a drag.
DORIS: .Love ya, honey.
A DOOR: We hear a voice, muffled through the door, breaking into A hand enters to knock.
VOICE: Yeah, come in.
CREIGHTON: ( into the phone ) OK. yeah. I'll see you tomorrow.
CREIGHTON: .Oh, I thought you were the porter. Can I help you?
ED: .I'm, uh, Ed.
ED: .Ed Crane. Remember? Today?
CREIGHTON: Sorry, friend, I, uh, you got me at a disadvantage.
ED: I'm, uh, I'mthe barber.
CREIGHTON: Jesus! The barber! I'll be a sonofagun. Why didn't you say so? 'Coursethe barber.
CREIGHTON: .I didn't recognize you without the smock. Did Idamndid I leave something at the shop?
ED: No. I might be interested in that, uh, business proposition
CREIGHTON: You got the dough?!
ED: I can get it, yeah.
CREIGHTON: Come in, come in, siddown over there. No. Itell me
ED: No. Itell me
CREIGHTON: What's involved, aside from putting up the money? What're you looking for the partner to do?
ED: What's involved, aside from putting up the money? What're you looking for the partner to do?
CREIGHTON: Do? Hell, nothing. Well, you'll want to keep tabs on your investment, of course, but I'm looking for a silent partner. I've done the research, I've contacted the vendors, the deal is set. I'm just looking for venture capital, friend. Disappear if you want, check in whenever you likeI want the dough; I don't take And how do we share
ED: And how do we share
CREIGHTON: Fifty-fifty, straight down the line. You and me. Finance and expertise. Soyou've got the dough then, do I'll have it in a week.
ED: I'll have it in a week.
CREIGHTON: Well, I'll be damned. The barber! And I thought this trip was a bust.
CREIGHTON: .it just goes to show, when one door slams shut, another one opens. Here's to ya, uh.
ED: They both knock back the whiskey. Creighton leans back and gives Ed a heavy-lidded stare, a faint smile on his lips, his hairpiece slightly askew. Ed stares back. After a beat, without taking his eyes of Ed, Creighton reaches up and loosens his tie. An almost imperceptible wink. Ed stares.
ED: .Was that a pass?
CREIGHTON: ( hoarsely ) You're out of line, mister.
ED: You're out of line, mister.
CREIGHTON: No problem!
ED: Way out of line.
CREIGHTON: Right! Strictly business.
ED: CLOSE ON TYPEWRITTEN NOTE It says:
BARBERSHOP: We are looking down at the top of an eight-year-old's crew cut as clippers buzz its perimeter. Frank reads a magazine. The youngster reads a comic as Ed works his head.
ED: This hair.
FRANK: This hair.
ED: This hair.
FRANK: .You ever wonder about it?
ED: .You ever wonder about it?
FRANK: Whuddya mean?
ED: I don't know. How it keeps on coming. It just keeps growing.
FRANK: Yeahlucky for us, huh, pal?
ED: No, I mean it's growing, it's part of us. And we cut it off. And throw it away.
FRANK: Come on, Eddie, you're gonna scare the kid.
ED: OK, bud, you're through.
ED: .I'm gonna take his hair and throw it out in the dirt.
FRANK: What the
ED: I'm gonna mingle it with common house What the hell are you talking about?
FRANK: What the hell are you talking about?
ED: I don't know. Skip it.
DORIS: A track forward reveals Doris sitting at a vanity, doing her hair. Her dress is half zipped at the back.
DORIS: .Gimme a zip.
ED: Where you going?
DORIS: Me? Us! The party at Nirdlinger'sI told you last week, for the Christmas Yeah, right. Come on, get ready. It's important.
ED: Yeah, right. Come on, get ready. It's important.
DORIS: Come on, get ready. It's important.
ED: Nah, go ahead. I'm not big on parties.
DORIS: Oh, don't be a grump.
SALES FLOOR: It is festooned with streamers. Ed leans against a wall, one hand dug into a pocket, the other bringing a cigarette to his lips. Band music plays and Nirdlinger's employees whirl on the dance floor. Bobby-soxed teenagers Lindy-hop and pass palms over their knees. A thin young man in a sports coat stands next to Ed, watching, his Adam's apple bobbing.
YOUNG MAN: Wild, man!
VOICE: You in ladies' wear?
ED: YOUNG MAN
YOUNG MAN: Haven't I seen you up in ladies' I don't work here. My wife does.
ED: I don't work here. My wife does.
YOUNG MAN: Uh-huh. Some beat, huh?
ED: YOUNG MAN
YOUNG MAN: Check out the rack on that broad in the angora.
ED: A hand is laid on Ed's shoulder. It is Big Dave; he leans in to murmur:
DAVE: Ed. Can I talk to you?
DAVE: Siddown. Siddown. .Souveniered it off a Jap in New
DAVE: .Souveniered it off a Jap in New
DAVE: .I guess you're wondering what Doris was so hot about.
DAVE: .These're Havanas. Romeo and Juliets. Private stock.
DAVE: .Ed, I.
ED: What is it, Dave? Ed, I've been weak.
DAVE: Ed, I've been weak.
DAVE: .I've, uh. I've, uh. thanks.
DAVE: .I've, uh. Oh, Jesus. I've been carrying on with a married woman. Uh, no one you know. And now the, uh what is it they say?thethethe chickens are coming home to roost.
ED: Hell, I, I'm not proud of it. But, uh, that's not the worst of it. I got a note. A blackmail note. You know, come across or everybody knows.
DAVE: Hell, I, I'm not proud of it. But, uh, that's not the worst of it. I got a note. A blackmail note. You know, come across or everybody knows.
ED: Well, you know what that would do to I guess it would be pretty awkward.
DAVE: Well, you know what that would do to I guess it would be pretty awkward.
ED: I guess it would be pretty awkward.
DAVE: Awkward?! Ann'd throw me out on my keister! Hell, it's her family's storeher store. I serve at the indulgence of the goddamn ownership, I only work here! And the lady's husband would know. Oh, Jesus.
ED: I only work here! And the lady's husband would know. Oh, Jesus.
DAVE: I only work here! And the lady's husband would know. Oh, Jesus.
ED: How much to they want, Dave?
DAVE: $10,000! I don't know what to do, Ed. I don't know what I can do. Even though I know who the sonofabitch .You know. who who is?
ED: .You know. who who is?
DAVE: The sonofabitch. The blackmailer. It's, uh, it's no one you know. It's a businessman from Sacramento. A goddamn pansy, Ed. He tried to rope me into some crackpot scheme; I heard him out and then told him to go to hell. And the very next day, the very next day, Ed, I get blackmailed for the same amount.
ED: Would he. it sounds pretty obvious.
DAVE: Well, I guess he don't care that it's obvious.
ED: Mm. How, uh. how did he know that
DAVE: He's staying at the hotel I've gone to with, uh, with the lady in question. Must've seen us.
DAVE: He exhales with a long sigh.
DAVE: .Oh, Jesus.
ED: .Why don't you just pay him, Dave?
DAVE: That's my capitalization on the Annex! My operation, Ed! Christ almighty. That's what I was just talking to Doris about, a way of getting the money from the store that we could hide from Ann.
ED: Embezzling, Ed. From my own goddamn
DAVE: Embezzling, Ed. From my own goddamn
DAVE: .Doris, she was pretty hot about that. God bless her. She doesn't know I'm telling you thisshe's mad enough already. But Jesus, Ed, you're the only one I can talk to. I'm, I'm sorry I. I better get back to the .I look all right?
DAVE: .I look all right?
PULLING ED: He has left the office to wander through an adjacent room lit only by spill from the party. It is the music department; pianos and spinets are arranged across the floor.
ED: That was pretty.
ED: .Did you make that up?
YOUNG WOMAN: Oh, no. That was written by Mr Ludwig van Beethoven.
ED: That was quite something.
YOUNG WOMAN: He wrote some beautiful piano sonatas.
ED: That was something. I'm Ed Crane.
YOUNG WOMAN: I know who you are, Mr Crane.
YOUNG WOMAN: .My father used to take me with him when he got his hair cut. Walter
YOUNG WOMAN: .I'm Rachel Abundas. Everyone calls me Birdy.
ED: Sorry, I just didn't remember.
BIRDY: Oh, that's all right. You can't be expected to remember every skinny girl who comes in with her dad.
ED: .You don't like the music out there?
BIRDY: It's OK, I guess. No, I don't really. I'm not big on music, ordinarily.
VOICE: He looks. Silhouetted in the doorway to the party room is Doris, coat over her arm, purse in hand.
ED'S CAR: Doris and Ed are driving home. Doris draws heavily on a cigarette, looking flintily out at the road.
DORIS: .What a knucklehead.
ED: How's that?
DORIS: How's that?
ED: How's that?
DORIS: She waves angrily.
DORIS: .Money problems. He's thinking about canceling the Annex.
ED: That means I don't run Nirdlinger's!
DORIS: That means I don't run Nirdlinger's!
ED: They ride in silence for a beat. Doris shakes her head.
DORIS: .What a knucklehead.
STREET: As the car roars past and into the distance.
ANOTHER STREET: It is day. We are looking from inside a parked car toward a hotel entrance. Big Dave emerges from the hotel, gets into a Packard and drives off.
HOTEL HALLWAY: Ed emerges from a stairwell and goes to a standing ashtray by the elevator.
ANOTHER FLOOR: Ed emerges from the stairwell, goes to a door and knocks. The door swings open.
CREIGHTON: Yeah, good, how are ya, come in.
CREIGHTON: .You bring a check?
ED: He gives Ed a look.
CREIGHTON: He gives Ed a look.
CREIGHTON: .Usually we do this kind of thing with a bank draft. But cashthat's fineit's all the same in the end dough's dough, huh?
ED: I got the paperwork here. Partnership papers here, they reflect our agreement: fifty-fifty on the net, I supply professional services, you supply the capital. I'll give you a receipt on the dough there, huh?
CREIGHTON: I got the paperwork here. Partnership papers here, they reflect our agreement: fifty-fifty on the net, I supply professional services, you supply the capital. I'll give you a receipt on the dough there, huh?
ED: Pretty straightforward, but I don't know if you wanna show this stuff to a lawyer
CREIGHTON: Pretty straightforward, but I don't know if you wanna show this stuff to a lawyer
ED: It's OK.
CREIGHTON: Yeah, screw 'em, huh? Pay 'em to tangle it up and then you pay 'em to untangle it, what's the point?
CREIGHTON: .Just a second here, I'll give you a receipt on the, uh. Whoa, Nellie. Oh, by the way, we didn't talk about this, I, uh, I think I'm gonna call the place Tolliver's, after me, you know, I didn't think you were much interested in, uh
ED: That'll be fine.
CREIGHTON: Yeah, good. Lemme just, uh.
CREIGHTON: .Yeah, that's it. As per our
ED: Creighton hands Ed an executed agreement and a receipt.
CREIGHTON: Well, there it is. Writ large in legal escriture, next step is
ED: Look, uh. Creighton.
ED: .You're not gonna screw me on this?
CREIGHTON: Screw youJesus! Take it to a lawyer! No, I insist! This is dry cleaning, this is not some fly-by- night thing here! I must say, I've been an entrepreneur for thirteen years and I've never
ED: All right.
CREIGHTON: And I've never been askedLook, you want the dough back? You know who I am! You
ED: Creighton mops his brow again.
CREIGHTON: So, uh. Tolliver's is OK then?
CAR: Ed drives with the usual cigarette in his mouth. Doris sits next to him. Rural scenery slips by in the background.
DORIS: .I hate wops.
DORIS: .What's so damn strange about that?
ED: I didn't say a word.
DORIS: .You didn't have to grow up with
DORIS: .Family. Boy.
CHILD: He's ridin' Garibaldi! Uncle Frankie's ridin' Garibaldi!
WOMAN: How you doin', Doris, you been OK?
DORIS: How're you, Constanza?
WOMAN: Oh, you know, I got my healt'. And how you been, uh.
ED: Ed. How's a business?
WOMAN: Ed. How's a business?
ED: ( to Doris ) He's a barber, right? It's a good trade. So how come you got no kids?
WOMAN: ( to Doris ) He's a barber, right? It's a good trade. So how come you got no kids?
PICNIC TABLE: A group of kids pulls Frank, laughing, by the hand toward a picnic table set out with pies in a row.
VOICES: Uncle Frankie's gotta join! Wait for No, come on, kidsI just ate lunch!
FRANK: No, come on, kidsI just ate lunch!
VOICES: No, noUncle Frankie's gotta join!
OLD MAN: He clicks the timer.
OLD MAN: Frank and the line of children plunge their faces into the line of blueberry pies. The other picnickers cheer them on.
ELSEWHERE: Ed and Doris approach the innocent-looking young couple accepting congratulations. Doris, holding her empty glass, is not a happy drunk:
DORIS: 'Gratulations, Gina. It's so goddamn Congratulations, Gina.
ED: Congratulations, Gina.
DORIS: Life is so goddamn wonderful, you almost won't believe it.
ED: It's just a goddamn bowl of cherries, I'm sure.
DORIS: It's just a goddamn bowl of cherries, I'm sure.
ED: Doris calls back over her shoulder:
DORIS: Congratulations on your goddamn
DORIS: .Leggo my goddamn elbow.
ELSEWHERE: In a long shot we see Frank at the crest of a hill, staggering slowly, painfully, toward a tree. In his right hand he clutches a trophy. When he reaches the tree he swings his free hand up against it, leans forward, and vomits.
CAR: Late afternoon, driving home. Ed drives. Doris sits in the front passenger seat, snoring lightly. Frank sits in the back seat hugging his trophy to his chest, eyes closed, murmuring:
FRANK: I never wanna see another blueberry .I never even wanna hear those
FRANK: .I never even wanna hear those
FRANK: .Don't says those words, Ed.
ED: Ed, it's Big Dave. I gotta talk to Please, Ed.
VOICE: Ed, it's Big Dave. I gotta talk to Please, Ed.
ED: Please, Ed.
DAVE: Please, Ed.
ED: But it's.
DAVE: Please, Ed.
ED: Your place?
DAVE: I'm at Nirdlinger's. Let yourself
ED: He hangs up. He nudges Doris.
ED: She murmurs.
ED: She rolls away and burrows into a pillow. Ed opens her purse and pokes through it.
NIRDLINGER'S: We are looking over Ed's shoulder as he hesitantly swings open a door. It reveals Big Dave's office, quiet and rather dark. A down-facing banker's lamp on the desk illuminates Big Dave's hands on the desktop.
ED: Come on in.
DAVE: Come on in.
ED: .What's the problem, Big Dave?
DAVE: .I'm ruined.
DAVE: .It ruined me. This money. No annex. I'm all shot to hell.
ED: So you paid the guy?
DAVE: .What kind of man are you?
ED: What kind of man are you?
DAVE: What kind of man are you?
ED: Big Dave
DAVE: I'd understand if you'd walked in here. Socked me in the nose. Whatever. I deserved it.
ED: I, uh.
DAVE: I'm not proud of what I did. But
DAVE: .Yeah, I paid up. As you well know. And then I went and found the pansy.
DAVE: .Got nothin' to say, huh? Yeah, well, you already know the story. I didn't, I hadda beat it out of the pansy. Your money.
DAVE: .What kind of man are you?
DAVE: He crosses around the desk and adds, sadly:
DAVE: .I'm all shot to hell.
DAVE: .What kind of man are you?
BARBERSHOP: The next day. Ed cuts hair, a cigarette between his lips.
FRANK: Holy-moly, do I got a headache.
FRANK: .How you today, Ed?
ED: You don't got a headache?
FRANK: You don't got a headache?
ED: Damn, I got a headache to beat the
FRANK: Damn, I got a headache to beat the
LATER: Ed sits in his chair, hands folded in his lap, head tilted back, eyes closed. We hold on Ed as we hear a clipper buzzing and Frank talking to someone in his chair.
FRANK: Ya can't pump it. Did ya pump it? That'll just flood it.
CUSTOMER: Ya gotta pump it. Ya can't just hold it down. That'll flood it.
FRANK: You crazy? You pumped it?
CUSTOMER: Well, ya can't hold it down.
MAN 1: Ed Crane?
ED: MAN 1
MAN 1: Come on outside.
ED: The two men are staring at the sidewalk, smoking, hesitant to speak. One of them finally comes up with an icebreaker:
OUTSIDE: The two men are staring at the sidewalk, smoking, hesitant to speak. One of them finally comes up with an icebreaker:
MAN 2: .So you're a barber, huh?
ED: That's right.
MAN 1: I'm Officer Persky. This is Krebs.
ED: .We goin'?
KREBS: Huh? No.
PERSKY: Ed holds up one hand with its smoking cigarette.
PERSKY: Right. Uh. Pete's got some news for you.
KREBS: .Look, pal, it's a tough break, but, uh. well damnit, your wife's been pinched.
PERSKY: They sent us to tell ya.
ED: They sent us to tell ya. We pulled the detail.
KREBS: They sent us to tell ya. We pulled the detail.
ED: My wife?
PERSKY: Yeah, uh, they brung her to the county jail, uh.
KREBS: Well, embezzlement. And homicide. A guy named David Brewster. He's, uh. He's the decedent.
PERSKY: Well, embezzlement. And homicide. A guy named David Brewster. He's, uh. He's the decedent.
ED: I don't understand.
KREBS: He's the dead guy.
PERSKY: .Yeah, it's a tough break.
KREBS: Visiting ends at five. Too late today. You can see her tomorrow.
PERSKY: Sorry, pal. They sent us to tell ya.
PERSKY: .Crap detail.
RESIDENTIAL STREET: It is evening. Ed is pulling up to a house on a tree-lined street similar to his own. He gets out of his car and goes up the walk, and a man sitting on the porch swing holds up a hand of greeting.
MAN: 'Lo, Ed.
ED: Hello, Walter.
WALTER: Have a seat.
ED: Thanks. Thanks for seeing me, at Oh, hell. Drink?
WALTER: Oh, hell. Drink?
ED: No thanks.
WALTER: Sure you don't need one?
ED: I'm fine.
WALTER: OK. Boy. Jesus!
ED: Yeah. What do I, uh.
WALTER: Well, of course, I, uh, it's out of my league, criminal stuff. I do, uh, probate, real estate, title search, uh. I'd be absolutely worthless, something like this. Absolutely
WALTER: 'Scuse me, just finished dinner. Um. Frankly, Doris'd be better off with the county defender.
ED: He a good man?
WALTER: Bert's OK, sure, he's a good man. I won't kid you though, Ed, nobody around here has any experience with this kind of, er. And I hear they're bringing a prosecutor up from Sacramento. Capital offense. Taking it seriously. Hmm.
ED: Taking it seriously.
WALTER: Taking it seriously.
ED: So, who should I
VOICE: You want any coffee, Dad?
VOICE: Oh, hello, Mr Crane.
ED: Hello, Rachel.
BIRDY: I'm so sorry. I was sorry to hear.
ED: Yeah. Thanks.
WALTER: Coffee, Ed?
ED: I'm fine. Thanks.
WALTER: No thanks, honey.
BIRDY: OK. Nice to see you, Mr Crane.
WALTER: Damnit! She's a good kid.
ED: .So, uh, who should I
WALTER: Well, there's Lloyd Garroway in San Francisco. Probityyou know, no one ever said anything iffy about Lloyd Garroway. Conservative. Jury might like that. Might like that here.
WALTER: Uh-huh. Is he the best then, for, Well, the best, the money-is-no-object best, for a criminal case, any lawyer would tell you Freddy Riedenschneider. Out of Sacramento. 'Course, I don't know how you're fixed for money.
ED: Uh-huh. Is he the best then, for, Well, the best, the money-is-no-object best, for a criminal case, any lawyer would tell you Freddy Riedenschneider. Out of Sacramento. 'Course, I don't know how you're fixed for money.
WALTER: Well, the best, the money-is-no-object best, for a criminal case, any lawyer would tell you Freddy Riedenschneider. Out of Sacramento. 'Course, I don't know how you're fixed for money.
ED: Uh-huh. He's the, uh.
WALTER: Yeah, the best.
WALTER: .Yeah, Riedenschneider. Wish I could tell you more. Hell, I wish I could handle it myself. But I'd be absolutely worthless for this kind of thing.
WALTER: .Criminal matter? Freddy
WALTER: .No question about it.
ED: Honey. I brought your make-up.
DORIS: How are you?
ED: How are you?
DORIS: I don't know what's going on. I
ED: What happened to you?
DORIS: .I don't know what happened to Big Dave. I know some of it. Irregularities in my books, they said. Can I explain it.
ED: You don't have to
DORIS: I helped him cook the books, Ed. I did do that.
ED: You don't have to tell them anything. We're getting you a lawyer.
DORIS: I know all about that. But I don't know how much to tell them.
ED: Don't tell 'em anything. We're getting you Freddy Riedenschneider.
DORIS: Should I. should I tell you why?
ED: You don't have to tell me anything.
DORIS: Jesus Christ.
DORIS: .My books used to be perfect. Anyone could open them up, make sense of the whole goddamn store.
ED: I knew we'd pay for it.
DORIS: I knew we'd pay for it.
BARBERSHOP: Ed sits in a waiting-customer chair, wearing his smock. Frank paces in front of him. He smacks a fist into his palm.
FRANK: This is what family is for, Ed! This is when ya come together!
ED: Close ranks! Goddamnit! Those sons of bitches!
FRANK: Close ranks! Goddamnit! Those sons of bitches!
ED: Frank, uh, you know I'll try to contribute, but, uhFreddy I don't care what it costs! This is when ya come together!
FRANK: I don't care what it costs! This is when ya come together!
ED: That's very generous.
FRANK: The hell with it, Eddie!
BANK: Ed and Frank sit waiting on a bench in the high-vaulted lobby. Frank looks uncomfortable in an ill-fitting suit. As they wait, he looks nervously about. In a hushed voice:
FRANK: They're just people like you and me, Ed. Remember that.
ED: Just people. They gotta put up the big front so that people will trust them with their money. This is why the big lobby, Ed. But they put their pants on one leg at a time. Just like you and me.
FRANK: Just people. They gotta put up the big front so that people will trust them with their money. This is why the big lobby, Ed. But they put their pants on one leg at a time. Just like you and me.
ED: They too use the toilet, Ed. In spite of appearances. And their money will be secured by the barbershop. A rock. A rock, the barbershop. I mean, how long has this place been here?
FRANK: They too use the toilet, Ed. In spite of appearances. And their money will be secured by the barbershop. A rock. A rock, the barbershop. I mean, how long has this place been here?
MAN: Mr Raffo?
FRANK: Yes, sir.
MAN: Could you come with me please?
FRANK: Sure. Can Ed come too?
MAN: Crane. Ed Crane.
ED: Crane. Ed Crane.
MAN: You also have an interest in the securing property?
FRANK: He's a barber.
MAN: Second chair.
FRANK: Second chair.
MAN: Not an owner.
FRANK: No, he's family, he's my brother-in- Ah-hah. It would be best if he waited
MAN: Ah-hah. It would be best if he waited
MAN: .not fried, poached. Three of 'em for two minutes. A strip steak medium rare, flapjacks, potatoes, tomato juice, and plenty of hot coffee.
MAN: .Do you have prairie oysters?
WAITRESS: No, sir.
MAN: Then bring me a fruit cocktail while I wait.
MAN: .You're Ed Crane?
ED: Barber, right? I'm Freddy Riedenschneider. Hungry? They tell me the chow's OK here. I made some No thanks, I Look, I don't wanna waste your time so I'll eat while we talk. Ya mind? You don't mind. So while I'm in town I'll be staying at the Hotel Metropole, the Turandot Suite. Yeah, it's goofy, the suites're named after operas; room's OK though, I poked around. I'm having 'em hold it for me on account of I'll be back and forth. In addition to my retainer, you're paying hotel, living expenses, secretarial, private eye if we need to make inquiries, headshrinker should we go that way. We'll talk about appeals if, as and when. For right now, has she confessed?
MAN: Barber, right? I'm Freddy Riedenschneider. Hungry? They tell me the chow's OK here. I made some No thanks, I Look, I don't wanna waste your time so I'll eat while we talk. Ya mind? You don't mind. So while I'm in town I'll be staying at the Hotel Metropole, the Turandot Suite. Yeah, it's goofy, the suites're named after operas; room's OK though, I poked around. I'm having 'em hold it for me on account of I'll be back and forth. In addition to my retainer, you're paying hotel, living expenses, secretarial, private eye if we need to make inquiries, headshrinker should we go that way. We'll talk about appeals if, as and when. For right now, has she confessed?
ED: No thanks, I Look, I don't wanna waste your time so I'll eat while we talk. Ya mind? You don't mind. So while I'm in town I'll be staying at the Hotel Metropole, the Turandot Suite. Yeah, it's goofy, the suites're named after operas; room's OK though, I poked around. I'm having 'em hold it for me on account of I'll be back and forth. In addition to my retainer, you're paying hotel, living expenses, secretarial, private eye if we need to make inquiries, headshrinker should we go that way. We'll talk about appeals if, as and when. For right now, has she confessed?
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Look, I don't wanna waste your time so I'll eat while we talk. Ya mind? You don't mind. So while I'm in town I'll be staying at the Hotel Metropole, the Turandot Suite. Yeah, it's goofy, the suites're named after operas; room's OK though, I poked around. I'm having 'em hold it for me on account of I'll be back and forth. In addition to my retainer, you're paying hotel, living expenses, secretarial, private eye if we need to make inquiries, headshrinker should we go that way. We'll talk about appeals if, as and when. For right now, has she confessed?
ED: No. Of course not. She didn't do it.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Good! That helps. Not that she didn't do it, that she didn't confess. Of course, there's ways to deal with a confession, but that's good!one less thing to think about. Now. Interview. I'm seeing her tomorrow. You should be there. Three o'clock. One more thing: you keep your mouth shut. I get the lay of the land, I tell you what to say. No talking out of school. What's out of school? Everything's out of school. I do the talking; you keep your trap shut. I'm an attorney, you're a barber; you don't know anything. Understood?
ED: Good! Any questions give me a ring Turandot suite; if I'm out leave a message. You sure you don't want anything? No?
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Good! Any questions give me a ring Turandot suite; if I'm out leave a message. You sure you don't want anything? No?
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .You're OK, pal. You're OK, she's OK. Everything's gonna be hunky-dory.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .And the flapjacks, honey.
FRONT DOOR: Ed opens it as he finishes cinching a bathrobe. The woman waiting on the front porch is dressed in black: a black dress and a black veiled hat that is too big for her bird-like frame. Wind rustles in the trees behind her. She stares at Ed.
ED: For the first time, we hear her speak, in a low, tremulous
ANN: Hello, Ed.
ED: Ann. Will you come in?
ANN: .No, No, it's very late. .I'm so sorry about your loss.
ED: .I'm so sorry about your loss.
ANN: Yes. Thank you.
ED: Of course, you know, Doris had nothing to do with it. Nothing at all.
ANN: Oh, I know. Don't worry, Ed. I came to tell you.
ED: Yes, Ann?
ANN: And you should tell Doris.
ANN: .You know how Big Dave loved camping. And the out-of-doors.
ED: We went camping last summer. In Eugene, Oregon. Outside of Eugene,
ANN: We went camping last summer. In Eugene, Oregon. Outside of Eugene,
ED: At night, there were lightswe both saw them. We never told anyone, outside of our official report.
ANN: At night, there were lightswe both saw them. We never told anyone, outside of our official report.
ED: A spacecraft. I saw the creatures. They led Big Dave onto the craft. He never told anyone what they did, outside of his report. Of course he told me. No one else.
ANN: A spacecraft. I saw the creatures. They led Big Dave onto the craft. He never told anyone what they did, outside of his report. Of course he told me. No one else.
ED: The government knows. I cannot repeat it to you. But this thing goes deep, Ed. This was not your wife. I goes deep, and involves the government. There is a great deal of fear. You know how certain circles would find itthe knowledgea threat. They try to limit it, and
ANN: The government knows. I cannot repeat it to you. But this thing goes deep, Ed. This was not your wife. I goes deep, and involves the government. There is a great deal of fear. You know how certain circles would find itthe knowledgea threat. They try to limit it, and
ED: Ann, will you come in, sit down, maybe have a drink?
ANN: Sometimes knowledge is a curse, Ed. After this happened, things changed. Big Dave. he never touched me again.
ANN: .Tell Doris not to worry. I know it wasn't her. Perhaps this will bring it out, finally. Perhaps now it will all come out.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .It stinks.
DORIS: But it's true.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: I don't care it's true, it's not true; it stinks. You say he was being blackmailed; by who? You don't know. For having an affair; with who? You don't know. Did anyone else know about it? Probably not; you don't I knew about it. Big Dave told me about it, and the spot he was putting himself in by getting the money.
ED: I knew about it. Big Dave told me about it, and the spot he was putting himself in by getting the money.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Terrific. Your husband backs you up. That's terrific.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .You've gotta give me something to work with. Freddy Riedenschneider is good, but he's not a magician. He can't just wave his little wand in the air and make a plausible defense materialize. Look. Look at what the other side is gonna run at us. They got the company books, prepared by youcooked by youthat's Motive. They got a murder scene you had access to. That's Opportunity. They got that little trimmer thing he was stabbed in the throat witha dame's It was Big Dave's.
ED: It was Big Dave's.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: don't interrupt methat's Means. They got a fine upstanding pillar of the business community as a victim, and then they got you, a disgruntled number-juggling underling who on the day in question was drunk as a skunk and whose alibi for the time in question is being passed out at home, I was with her.
ED: I was with her.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Like I say, it stinks.
ED: .I killed him.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: OK, we forget the blackmail. You killed him. How come?
ED: He and Doris. were having an affair.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: OK, how did you know?
ED: I. just knew. A husband knows.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Will anyone else say they knew?
ED: I don't know. I don't think so.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: How did you get into the store?
ED: I took Doris's keys.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Will anyone say they saw you there? On your way there? In there? On your was back?
ED: .I don't think so.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Will anyone corroborate and goddamn part of your story at all? .Come on, people. You can't help each other like that. Let's be realistic now. Let's look at our options. Well, frankly, I don't see any options.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Come on, people. You can't help each other like that. Let's be realistic now. Let's look at our options. Well, frankly, I don't see any options.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .I cannot present Story A.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .I cannot present Story B. I could plead you for a nutcase but you look too composed. I could offer a guilty plea and in return they don't give you the juice, but I don't think you want to spend the rest of your life in Chino and I know you didn't hire Freddy Riedenschneider to hold your hand at a sentencing hearing. Hell, you could've gotten Lloyd Garroway for that. No, we're not giving up yet; you hired Freddy Riedenschneider, it means you're not throwing in the towel. I litigate, I don't capitulate. All right, no options, we gotta think. All right, we go back to the blackmail thing. It titillates, it's open ended.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .And it makes him the bad guy ya dig around, ya never know, something unsavory from his past, he approaches you to help with the money, it's too late, his past comes back to haunt him, who's to say.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Yeah. OK. Forget the jealous husband thing, that's silly; we're going with the blackmail. I'll be in
HOTEL LOBBY: The camera drifts in toward the reception desk. Ed talks to the clerk behind the desk, but the scene plays silently; we hear only Ed's narration.
HALLWAY: It is a rooming-house hallway. A stern middle-aged woman is on the hall telephone. This too plays silently under the
BARBERSHOP: The distinctive buzz of electric hairclippers bangs in at the cut. Ed and Frank stand behind their respective chairs, administering haircuts. The customer in Ed's chair is in white shirtsleeves that do not hide rolls of fat. He has a hot towel over his face that does not slow his speech, although it does muffle it to some His voice turns into a drone under the narration.
CUSTOMER: She makes this stuff, she calls it gatto, it's got egg in there, it's got sugar, it's gotit's cake, basically, except she calls it gatto. Like if you don't call it cake maybe you won't put on any weight, like I need to eat gatto, you know what I'm saying? This stuff, if I've had a square meal, I've had my steak and potatoes, I can just have another cup of coffee afterward, I won't ask for the desert if it's not there.
CUSTOMER: Got the recipe from a magazine, woman's magazine.
CRANE DOWN: Inside a courtroom we boom down toward the defendant's table, the fat customer's drone turning into the drone of the bailiff reading an indictment. Doris stands next to Freddy
BAILIFF: .did willfully and with malice aforethought take the life of one David Allen Brewster, a human being.
BAILIFF: What say you to these charges?
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: We plead not guilty, your honor.
BARBERSHOP: Booming down toward the fat man.
CUSTOMER: I say, Honey, if you're gonna make a cobbler, make a little bit of cobbler, don't put a whole pan in front of me and tell me it's not gonna be any good when it's cold.
OPERA SINGERS: We are panning photographic portraits of opera singers in character, wearing the wardrobe of different eras, armies, dukedoms, and boudoirs, and displaying the heights and depths of various emotions, their mouths stretched wide in song. We pan off the pictures to discover that we are in a hotel room, floating in toward a bed on which Freddy Riedenschneider, a mask over his eyes, slumbers.
RESTAURANT: Tracking in toward Freddy Riedenschneider, who sits twirling spaghetti with a fork against a spoon.
LATERAL TRACK: From inside a car. Pedestrians bustle along a sidewalk. Among them scurries a weedy little man who has one hand clamped to the crown of his hat to keep it in place in a stiff wind.
LATERAL TRACK: Moving the opposite way. A different day, but again a crowd moves along the sidewalk, and among them the little man scuttles in the opposite direction, hand still raised to his hat, his forearm and the tilt of his head largely obscuring his face.
ED: 'Lo, honey.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .They got this guy, in Germany. Fritz something-or-other. Or is it. Maybe it's Werner. Anyway, he's got this theory, you wanna test something, you know, scientificallyhow the planets go round the sun, what sunspots are made of, why the water comes out of the tapwell, you gotta look at it. But sometimes, you look at it, your looking changes it. Ya can't know the reality of what happened, or what would've happened if you hadden a stuck in your goddamn schnozz. So there is no 'what happened.' Not in any sense that we can grasp with our puny minds. Because our minds. out minds get in the way. Looking at something changes it. They call it the 'Uncertainty Principle.' Sure, it sounds screwy, but even Einstein says the guy's on to something.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Science. Perception. Reality.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Reasonable doubt. I'm sayin', sometimes, the more you look, the less you really know. It's a fact. A proved fact. In a way, it's the only fact there is. This heinie even wrote it out in numbers.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: With a slight weight shift, Burns tips his chair so that its front legs slap down onto the floor. He fishes a small notebook from an inside pocket. His boredom is profound; his only concession to performance is to move the toothpick from one side of his mouth to the other where, perhaps, it will less inhibit speech.
BURNS: Subject: David Allen Brewster. Born: Cincinnati, 1911. Father: insurance salesman; mother: homemaker. One year Case Western University on football scholarship. Flunks out. 1931: retail appliance salesman in Barnhoff's department store, Cincinnati. 1933: meets Ann Nirdlinger, married later that year, moves here. 1935: arrested on an assault complaint; complainant, an organizer for the ILGWU, has a broken nose, couple of ribs, wife's family intercedes, some kind of settlement, charges dropped. 1936: another assault beef, bar altercation
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Yeah, yeah, couple of fistfights. Go to his service record.
BURNS: .Inducted March 15, 1942, assigned to fifth fleet US Navy, petty officer first class, serves in clerical capacity in US naval shipyards in San Diego, one fistfight broken up by MPs, no court martial, honorable discharge May 8, 1945. Since then he's been clean.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Thank you, Burns, get lost.
ED: Riedenschneider's fixed smile now fades.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: So? So?! This could be your dolly's ticket out of the deathhouse, so!
ED: .I don't get it.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Look, chum, this is a guy, from what I understand, told everybody he was a war hero, right? Island hopping, practically liberated the Pacific all by himself with a knife in one hand and a gun in the other and twenty yards of Jap guts between his teeth.
ED: And now it turns out this dope spent the war sitting on his ass in some boatyard in San Diego. You asked for blackmail, let me give you blackmail: Mr Hale-Fellow-Well-Met, about to open his own business here, has been lying to everybody in this town for the last four years, probably including half the people sitting on that jury. Well, it finally caught up with himthese dopes, it always does; someone threatened to spill it. Somebody knew his dirty little secret, just like your wife says. They called, they demanded money.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: And now it turns out this dope spent the war sitting on his ass in some boatyard in San Diego. You asked for blackmail, let me give you blackmail: Mr Hale-Fellow-Well-Met, about to open his own business here, has been lying to everybody in this town for the last four years, probably including half the people sitting on that jury. Well, it finally caught up with himthese dopes, it always does; someone threatened to spill it. Somebody knew his dirty little secret, just like your wife says. They called, they demanded money.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Did Big Dave mention that it was something about his war service? I don't know, I wasn't there, you'll have to tell us. Maybe he specified, maybe he didn't; I'm not putting words in your mouth; the point is that this liar, this cynical manipulator, this man who through his lies sneered and belittled the sacrifice and heroism of all our boys who did serve and bleed and puke and die on foreign shores, and who made a fool out of this entire town, turns to you to help him out of his jam. Fat-assed sonofabitch!
ED: So. who. who actually
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Who? Who?! I don't know who! But the point is that if Mr Prosecutor over there had devoted half the time he's spent persecuting this woman to even the most cursory investigation of this schmoe's past, then we might know who! But we can't know what really happened! Because of Fritz, or Werner, or whatever the hell his name is! And because Me Prosecutor is also a lazy fat-assed sonofabitch who decided it's easier to victimize your wife! Because it's easier not to look! Because the more you look, the less you know! But the beauty of it is, we don't gotta know! We just gotta show that, goddamnit, they don't know. Reasonable doubt. Science. The atom. You explain it to me. Go ahead. Try.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .Yeah, Freddy Riedenschneider sees daylight. We got a real shot at this, folks. Let's not get cocky.
ED: The smile twitches, and then stays. Doris starts to laugh. Ed frowns.
ED: Her laughter builds, almost to hysteria. Finally it subsides and, still staring at the tabletop and smiling, she shakes her head:
DORIS: What a dope.
BIRDY: He was deaf when he wrote this.
ED: Beethoven. He created it, and yet he never actually heard it. I suppose he heard it all in his head, somehow.
BIRDY: Beethoven. He created it, and yet he never actually heard it. I suppose he heard it all in his head, somehow.
A SIGN: The cardboard sign on an easel says "COME ONE, COME ALL /
SCHOOL GYMNASIUM: A young man holding a saxophone is just leaving the makeshift stage to a smattering of applause. Birdy walks out to the baby grand that has been set out center stage.
BIRDY: Hi, Mr Crane.
ED: Hello, Birdy. I thought that was very good.
BIRDY: Oh, in there? I messed up a little bit in the scherzo. I guess, if nobody noticed, it's OK. Mr Crane, this is Tony, a friend of mine. Tony, Mr Hello, Tony.
ED: Hello, Tony.
TONY: Hello, sir.
ED: .Well, congratulations. I guess I'll be getting home.
TONY: Nice to meet you, sir.
TURANDOT SUITE: It is morning. We are tracking past an unmade bed toward the bathroom, where we hear water running.
COURTROOM: We are close on the back of Riedenschneider's gleaming hair. He is sitting at the defense table. There is a murmur of a crowd that has yet to be called to Ed and Frank sit next to each other in the first gallery row directly behind Riedenschneider.
FRANK: Where's the judge? How come there's no judge?
FRANK: .Where's the judge, Ed?
FRANK: .How come the judge doesn't come The judge comes in last. He'll come in when Doris gets here.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: The judge comes in last. He'll come in when Doris gets here.
FRANK: So where's Doris? I thought we started at ten. Hey, Riedenschneider, where's
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: She's late.
FRANK: Late? How can she be late?
FRANK: .She's in prison, Ed. None of us are in prison, and yet we're not late. We're on time, Ed. How can Doris be late? What, they don't have wake-up calls?
JUDGE: Riedenschneider, puzzled, approaches the bench, as does his counterpart from the other table. The judge, still leaning forward, speaks to them in a low voice that is not audible from the gallery. The crowd has started murmuring again, also in hushed tones. Frank leans in toward Ed.
FRANK: What's going on, Ed? I thought there would be arguments. The bailiff, and so forth.
FRANK: .Ed, what is this? Is this
JUDGE: As the judge and the bailiff confer, Riedenschneider looks down at his desk and, for something to do, straightens various The Bailiff Announces:
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: I don't understand. We had a real shot at it. We could have won this
BAILIFF: In the matter of the State of California versus Doris Crane, Case Number 87249 assigned to this Superior
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .It doesn't make any sense.
BARBERSHOP: Late afternoon sun slants in. The shop, not open for business, is very still. Ed, in his courtroom suit, sits in one of the vinyl chairs that line the wall, hunched forward, forearms on his knees. Frank, also still in his suit, is up in one of the barber chairs, one hand cupped to his forehead, weeping.
BEDROOM: Night. Ed is in bed, staring at the ceiling.
METROPOLE LOBBY: Riedenschneider is at the cashier's desk, checking out. Behind him a bellman's cart is piled high with his bags.
FRANK'S HOUSE: Day. Frank's kitchen. Frank sits at his kitchen table, staring, in a bathrobe thrown over his pyjamas, unshaven.
BARBERSHOP: Ed, in his smock, works on a customer.
STREET: Ed walks along the sidewalk.
HOUSE: As Ed lets himself in.
BARBERSHOP: Ed is in his smock again, operating the clippers.
FADE OUT: The drone of the clippers has continued over the black. A voice fades up:
VOICE 1: So two blocks later I look at the change she gave me and, golly, I'm two bits short.
VOICE 2: Two bits short.
VOICE 1: So I walk back over to Linton's, find this galbig argument; she doesn't even recall the transaction.
VOICE 2: No recollection.
VOICE 1: Doesn't recall the transaction, no recollection, so I said, Look, dear.
FADE IN: We are looking at a magazine story. Its headline, over an illustration of a cresting wave, is: WAVE OF THE FUTURE. Underneath are black-and-white photographs of heavy equipment and racks of clothing on motorized tracks. Subheadlines read: NEXT TO GODLINESS - Dry Cleaning Sweeps The Nation - The Thoroughly Modern Way To Clean. Ed sits in one of the vinyl chairs, staring at Life magazine. The offscreen conversation drones on as the new man works on a customer.
NEW MAN: .go ahead, look at the menu, if you're in before six o'clock it's the, whatchamacallit, the
CUSTOMER: Early Bird Special.
NEW MAN: What? Yeah, the Early Riser.
VOICE: Ed looks up. A man in a black suit and fedora has directed the question at the new man, who looks up from his gabbling, momentarily
ED: .I'm Crane.
MAN: My name is Diedrickson. County medical Just came for an informal chat.
ED: Just came for an informal chat.
DIEDRICKSON: Just came for an informal chat.
DIEDRICKSON: .Why don't I buy you a drink?
ED: Dwight, you OK here for a few minutes?
DWIGHT: Whuhuh, yeah, sure Ed, take your
BAR: It is late afternoon, dusty and empty. Ed and Diedrickson sit on adjacent stools, Diedrickson cocking his hat lower to its man-sitting-at-a-bar position. As the bartender approaches:
DIEDRICKSON: Just coffee.
ED: Just coffee.
DIEDRICKSON: You sure you don't want something
BARTENDER: Coffee it is.
DIEDRICKSON: .County M. E. does an autopsy on anyone who dies in custody. I don't know if you knew that. It's routine.
DIEDRICKSON: .Doesn't become a matter of public record unless there's foul play. However. I don't believe I'm prohibited from telling you this. I guess I'm not obliged to tell you, either. I don't exactly know. But if I were the man, I'd want to be Told what?
ED: Told what?
DIEDRICKSON: I, uh. thanks.
DIEDRICKSON: .I'm sorry to add to your burden, Crane, but I'd want to know it it was me. Your wife was pregnant. First
DIEDRICKSON: .Well, there it is.
DIEDRICKSON: .I'm sorry.
DIEDRICKSON: .Hell, I hope I've done the right My wife and I had not. performed the sex act in many years.
ED: My wife and I had not. performed the sex act in many years.
DIEDRICKSON: ( murmuring ) ( aloud ) .Well, that's not really my
DIEDRICKSON: .I'm sorry. Well, there it is. .Good luck, Crane.
DIEDRICKSON: .Good luck, Crane.
APARTMENT HALLWAY: It is a dingy hallway lit by bare bulbs. Ed stands in the middle background, knocking on a door.
APARTMENT: We hear a low murmuring as we slowly pan the apartment. It is overfurnished with heavy, ornate chairs, sideboards, chests too big for the space and all going too seed. Surface areas are covered with yellowing lacework or exotic brocades; the one lamp has a veil thrown over it to further scrim down its feeble light. Our pan brings us onto Ed seated at a small card table across from a small elderly woman in a shawl who is the source of the murmuring. Her eyes are squeezed shut in concentration as she mumbles.
WOMAN: Giff me your hant.
APARTMENT HALLWAY: Ed is leaving.
ABUNDAS HOUSE: It is night. We are looking through the screen door. Walter Abundas sits in yellow lamplight by a small table on the side of the staircase, over which papers are strewn. He is murmuring into the telephone as he examines the papers, glasses halfway down his nose, a drink in one hand. Ed's hand enters to rap on the door. Walter looks up, sets the phone down and comes to the door.
WALTER: Ed, how're you holding up?
ED: I'm OK, Walter, thanks.
WALTER: I'm so damn sorry about your loss. Terrible thing. Just damn terrible.
ED: Birdy's in the parlorI'm on long distance here.
WALTER: Birdy's in the parlorI'm on long distance here.
ED: Sure, Walter. Thanks.
PARLOR: Birdy also has papers spread across a table in front of her: homework. She looks up at Ed's entrance.
BIRDY: Hello, Mr Crane.
ED: Hello, Birdy.
BIRDY: We haven't seen you since. I'm terribly sorry.
ED: We've certainly missed you.
BIRDY: We've certainly missed you.
ED: Birdy, I've been doing a lot of thinking. There are a lot of things that haven't worked out for me. Life has dealt me some bum cards.
ED: .or maybe I just haven't played 'em right, I don't know. But you're
BIRDY: Pop doesn't like people smoking in
ED: Oh. Sorry.
BIRDY: Sometimes I have a cigarette in here when he's away. Never when he's in the house. He can smell it a mile
ED: Sure. Sure, it's his house.
BIRDY: That's what he keeps telling me.
ED: Anyway, uh. my point is you're young. A kid really, your whole life ahead of you. But it's not too soon to start thinking. to start making opportunities for yourself. Before it all washes away.
BIRDY: Well, sure, I guess. Pop says so too. I work pretty hard at school.
ED: That's swell. However, the music, if you want to pursue it, well, the lessons from Mrs Swan, they'll only take you so far. There's this guy in San Francisco, I've made inquiries, everybody says he's the best. Trained lots of people who've gone on to have big concert careers, symphony orchestras, the works. His name is Jacques Carcanogues. I'm not sure I'm pronouncing it right. Anyway, he's a Frenchman.
BIRDY: You've got talent, anyone could see that. And he's the best. If he thinks a student has talent, he'll take 'em on for next to nothing. You're a cinch to be accepted, I could cover the cost of the lessons, like I said, it's pretty modest
ED: You've got talent, anyone could see that. And he's the best. If he thinks a student has talent, he'll take 'em on for next to nothing. You're a cinch to be accepted, I could cover the cost of the lessons, like I said, it's pretty modest
BIRDY: Oh, Mr Crane
ED: I have to do it. I can't stand by and watch more things go down the drain. You're young, you don't Geez, Mr Crane, I don't know. I hadn't really thought about a career or I know you haven't. Look, just go meet him as a favor to me. I talked to this guy. Hope I pronounced his name right. He sounded very busy, but he's not a bad egg; he loosened up a little when I told him how talented you are. He agreed to see you this Saturday. He said maybe you were a diamond in the rough. His Geez, Mr Crane.
BIRDY: Geez, Mr Crane, I don't know. I hadn't really thought about a career or I know you haven't. Look, just go meet him as a favor to me. I talked to this guy. Hope I pronounced his name right. He sounded very busy, but he's not a bad egg; he loosened up a little when I told him how talented you are. He agreed to see you this Saturday. He said maybe you were a diamond in the rough. His Geez, Mr Crane.
ED: I know you haven't. Look, just go meet him as a favor to me. I talked to this guy. Hope I pronounced his name right. He sounded very busy, but he's not a bad egg; he loosened up a little when I told him how talented you are. He agreed to see you this Saturday. He said maybe you were a diamond in the rough. His Geez, Mr Crane.
BIRDY: Geez, Mr Crane.
ED: Just see him, as a favor to me.
CARCANOGUES: .You are ze fahzer?
ED: No. Uh. family friend.
MAN: I am Carcanogues.
MAN: .You wait, my dear?
BIRDY: Sure, Mr K.
STUDIO: Ed enters, uncomfortable. He looks around, taking in the high-ceilinged space, which is dominated by a grand piano. Carcanogues has followed him and now runs water from a tap.
CARCANOGUES: I speak to you on ze phone, non? You have a special interest in music?
ED: Ah yes, a music lover.
CARCANOGUES: Ah yes, a music lover.
ED: Well, I don't pretend to be an expert.
CARCANOGUES: He uncaps a small bottle of pills, shakes two into his palm, tosses them back and washes them down.
CARCANOGUES: He twists a cigarette into a long holder, sticks it in his mouth and lights it.
CARCANOGUES: Well? How'd she do?
ED: Well? How'd she do?
CARCANOGUES: Ze girl?. She seems like a very nice girl. She plays, monsieur, like a very nice girl. Ztinks. Very nice girl. However, ztinks.
ED: I don't understand.
CARCANOGUES: Is not so hard to understand. Her playing, very polite.
ED: Did she make mistakes?
CARCANOGUES: Mistake, no, it says E-flat, she plays E-flat. Ping-ping. Hit the right note, always. Very proper.
ED: I don't understand, no mistakes, she's just a kidI thought you taught the, uh, the
CARCANOGUES: Ah, but that is just what I cannot teach. I cannot teach her to have a soul. Look, monsieur, play the piano, is not about the fingers. Done with the fingers, yes. But the music, she is inside. Inside, monsieur.
CARCANOGUES: .The music start here.
CARCANOGUES: .come out through here; then,
CARCANOGUES: .she can go up there.
ED: Well, look, I don't claim to be an Then you listen to me, for I am expert. That girl, she give me a headache. She cannot play. Nice girl. Very clever hands. Nice girl. Someday, I think, maybe, she make a very good
CARCANOGUES: Then you listen to me, for I am expert. That girl, she give me a headache. She cannot play. Nice girl. Very clever hands. Nice girl. Someday, I think, maybe, she make a very good
DRIVING: We are driving through the rural countryside of northern California. It is a two-lane road with little traffic. Sun strobes the car through the passing trees. Ed drives, glaring. Birdy, next to him, seems unperturbed, ever cheerful.
BIRDY: .I stank, didn't I?
ED: He didn't say that.
BIRDY: But more or less.
ED: Look, I'm no expert, but
BIRDY: It doesn't matter, Mr Crane.
ED: I'm sure there's a dozen teachers better than this clown. More qualified. Goddamn phony.
BIRDY: But it doesn't matter. Really, I'm not interested in playing music
BIRDY: .I'm not certain I'll have a career at all, and if I do, I'll probably be a veterinarian.
ED: I do appreciate the interest you've taken, though.
BIRDY: I do appreciate the interest you've taken, though.
ED: Ah. it's nothing.
BIRDY: I'm only sorry that I didn't play better for you. I know it would've made you happy. You know what you You're an enthusiast.
ED: You're an enthusiast.
BIRDY: You're an enthusiast.
ED: Huh. Yeah. Maybe.
ED: .I guess I've been all wet.
BIRDY: But I do appreciate it, Mr Crane.
BIRDY: .I wanted to make you happy.
ED: It's OK.
BIRDY: It's OK.
BIRDY: .I want to do it, Mr Crane.
ED: He reaches awkwardly, wanting to push her away but not wanting to be violent.
ED: .No, please.
BIRDY: Please, Mr Crane, it's OK, please
FADE IN: Ed sits on the front porch of his bungalow, smoking a cigarette in the late afternoon light. A dog barks next door; a distant screen door slams; children are playing somewhere up the street. Ed looks down at his watch. It is 5:30. Something attracts his attention: at the foot of his driveway stands a man in a cream-colored suit and hat. He is a small figure, perfectly still, staring at the gravel driveway. After a beat he lifts up a small clipboard, squints at the house, and jots something down. He finishes writing, screws the lid back onto his pen, and is sticking it into a breast pocket when he realizes he is being watched. His manner instantly warms.
MAN: The man starts up the walk.
ED: The man starts up the walk.
MAN: I notice you still have peastone in your driveway. Well, of course, you don't have to rejuvenate that once every couple of years, don't you, when the peastone thins out.
MAN: Well, of course, you don't have to rejuvenate that once every couple of years, don't you, when the peastone thins out.
MAN: .Where does it go, huh? Like the odd sock. But you know where it goesyou probably pick pieces of it off your lawn all the time, churn it up with your lawn mower, sweep it off the walk herepain in the neck.
ED: Doesn't bother me.
MAN: Well, have you ever considered tar Macadam? People think it's just for public works and commercial purposes, roads, parking lots, so forth.
MAN: .but we have the technology now to bring it to the homeowner, the individual consumer, at a very reasonable price.
MAN: .Mind if I show you the specifications?Evening, ma'am.
DORIS: What're you selling?
MAN: Well, ma'am, I was just telling your husband here about tar Macadam, for your home driveway herethese are the specs.
MAN: .It's the modern way to
DORIS: Get lost.
ED: Nah, don't say anything. I'm alright.
DORIS: Nah, don't say anything. I'm alright.
FADE OUT: In the black we hear machine noise of indistinct origin. As the noise becomes more defined we also hear shouting, faint, A blurry white disc is fading up. As it focuses it resolves into the reflector worn by a white-robed doctor, leaning in He leans away, murmuring:
VOICE: Are you there? Are you awake?
DOCTOR: He's coming around. Can you talk, sir? These men have to talk. .Sir? Are you awake? He's awake.
DOCTOR: .Sir? Are you awake? He's awake.
PERSKY: Are you awake?. Is he awake?
KREBS: Crane? We have to tell you, as soon as you're consciousis he conscious?
PERSKY: His eyes are open.
KREBS: Uh. you're under arrest.
PERSKY: As soon as the doctor lets us, we gotta move you. Does he understand that? We're supposed to tell him. Are you conscious?
KREBS: You'll go to the prison hospital.
PERSKY: Under arrest for murder.
ED: Birdy. I didn't mean to
KREBS: What'd he say?
ED: Birdy. The girl. No, the girl's OK. Broken clavicle.
DOCTOR: Birdy. The girl. No, the girl's OK. Broken clavicle.
DOCTOR: .That's the collarbone, Crane. Broken. She's OK though.
KREBS: So he understands? He's under arrest for murder?
ED: Big Dave.
PERSKY: What'd he say? Does he understand?
KREBS: What'd he say? Does he understand?
PERSKY: He said OK. Is that what he said?
KREBS: You're under arrest for the murder of Creighton Tolliver! Do you
PERSKY: .Does he understand?.
FADE OUT: Light glimmers in water. We are drifting down, down, down. We bring in languidly waving armsthe arms of a child, waving to keep himself submerged. It is a ten-year-old boy staring, wide-eyed, at something in front of him. Bubbles intermittently stream from his open mouth.
UNDERWATER: Light glimmers in water. We are drifting down, down, down. We bring in languidly waving armsthe arms of a child, waving to keep himself submerged. It is a ten-year-old boy staring, wide-eyed, at something in front of him. Bubbles intermittently stream from his open mouth.
TRACKING: We are tracking laterally across a line of faces: seated men. The men rise.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Not guilty, your honor.
JAIL: We are tracking in on Ed, lying on the bunk in his cell.
COURTROOM: The district attorney is rising again, this time to address the jury.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: .cynically used his own wife as a cat's paw in a scheme of diabolical On and on it went, how I'd used Doris and then let her take the fall. That stuff smarted because some of it was close to being true.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .a puny player on the great world's .how I was too ordinary to be the criminal mastermind the D.A. made me out to be, how there was some greater scheme at work that the state had yet to unravel, and he threw in some of the old truth stuff he hadn't had a chance to trot out for Doris.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .who among us is in a position to .He told them to look at melook at me close. That the closer they looked the less sense it would all make, that I wasn't the kind of guy to kill a guy, that I was the barber, for Christ's sake.
FRANK: What kind of man are you? What kind of man are you?
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: Move for a mistrial, your honor! Move for a mistrial! This outrageous display cannot help but prejudice. .and inflame the passions of these twelve fine men and women.
RIEDENSCHNEIDER: .and inflame the passions of these twelve fine men and women.
GARROWAY: Your honor, we plead guilty, with extenuating circumstances.
JUDGE: .a menace to society. a predator on his own wife, his business associates, on an innocent young girl. social contract. line crossed. the offender forfeits the right to his own life. I hereby order that you be taken to a place of confinement.
PRISON HALLWAY: We are tracking down the hall.
LATER: Ed sits at the little table next to his bunk, writing.
PRISON HALLWAY: Ed, alone, walks down the hallway. The pulsing treble hum is
PRISON YARD: Ed emerges into the empty prison yard ringed by high stone walls. A hard spotlight shines down from above. Ed squints into it.
ED'S CELL: Ed is lying on his bunk, eyes closed, hands clasped behind his head. A hand enters to shake him awake. Three men loom over him: two guards and another man wearing a surplice and holding a bible.
PRISON HALLWAY: He is walking the last mile.
