MAN TROUBLE: Carole Eastman ( a.k.a. Adrien Joyce )
MAN TROUBLE: FADE IN: 1 INT. CAMPUS REHEARSAL ROOM - NIGHT 1 A woman's hands descend to the keyboard of an organ, playing the opening chords to a duet from the Bach Cantata #78.
HELEN DEXTRA: The latter on crutches, a cast on her leg. They stand center stage, their texts resting on music stands. Seated off to the side, are two male soloists ( VINCENT GALLARDO & KENNETH DOWLER ). Behind them a chorus of men and women, waiting, as:
LEWIE: Spruance, would you like to show me where it's marked smearing . because I swear, I don't see Sorry. I didn't know I was.
JOAN: Sorry. I didn't know I was.
LEWIE: Also, I'd be mildly content if I could have a little less delirious self-appreciation and some small regard for remaining somewhere in the vicinity of the goddamned note.
JOAN: I wasn't smearing.
HELEN: Sssh, come on now.
JOAN: No, I'm telling you, this is personally motivated. Since I moved out he's been doing this, making remarks and being. incredibly pricklike.
LEWIE: Now, if our lovely soprano would like to stop grumbling for a moment, I'd like to take it once again.
JOAN: ( under her breath ) See what I mean?
LEWIE: Pardon me?
JOAN: I said fine, let's do it again.
LEWIE: ( with a cold stare ) From the beginning please.
ADELE: He never says, 'Honey I love you, you're doing a great job.' I don't feel he respects me as a person and I'm just not that happy with the stature of our
THERAPIST: Now I want you to look at Harry and tell him how you feel.
ADELE: I feel like he's not plugged into my needs, and I'm not getting enough positive feedback.
ADELE: See, look at him shaking his head.
THERAPIST: Well, let's see what he wants to say here. Harry, how do you feel when she brings out this material?
HARRY: How do I feel? I feel she just overheats on every little side issue, and when I go to try and communicate with the woman, for some unknown reason she doesn't believe a damn thing I say.
ADELE: Oh that's a lie.
HARRY: See what I mean?
ADELE: No, you know what this whole thing hinges from? He came to rent a building from me which is now his place of business.
HARRY: So what, he's not interested in that, that's not what he's asking. See what she does? She wants to dig up and haul out miscellaneous things that's got nothing to do with this. I mean, I agreed to come here, okay, but I have to tell you, Iwo Jima's got a lot of faulty notions in her head about me that..
ADELE: Alright, there. Right now. That's another thing I want to Pardon me, I was making a statement here.
HARRY: Pardon me, I was making a statement here.
THERAPIST: Yes, let's try and hear each other out if we can. Go on, Harry.
HARRY: Well, I forgot the upshot of what I was saying, but.
ADELE: Okay, this syndrome where I've asked him to address me by my given name and he just goes on ignoring my wishes.
THERAPIST: Alright. Look at him and really tell him how you feel about that.
ADELE: I don't want you to ever call me Iwo Jima again!
THERAPIST: That's a legitimate request, isn't
ADELE: If you can't call me Adele, don't call me anything at all.
THERAPIST: So? Can you look at Iwo Jima, Harry, and tell her.
THERAPIST: Better yet, can you take her by the hand and say, 'I hear what you're saying'?
THERAPIST: Good. That's good. because there's a lot of love here, isn't there. ( stealing a quick look at his watch )
ADELE: Next time I want to bring out some of our sexual hot spots.
HARRY: The hell you are, honey.
ADELE: The hell I'm not.
HARRY: . at fifty bucks a shot, out a my pocket. I'm going to listen to some pencil-necked butthead tell me I don't know how to relate to you.
ADELE: Daddy, do you want this marriage to work or not.
HARRY: I hear you, honey. But let's have just a little more trust on your end of this thing, okay? That's all I ask. Get in.
MELVENOS: You sure nothing of value has been removed from the dwelling?
JOAN: No, nothing. That's what's so disturbing. I mean, why would someone do something like this.?
MELVENOS: Yeah, you have quite a nice little mess here. It kinda looks like somebody doesn't like you, doesn't it?
JOAN: What do you mean, somebody doesn't like me?
FINGERPRINTER: Not much on the window. A few partials and a bunch of smears.
MELVENOS: Check out the bedroom.
JOAN: You think this is someone I know?
MELVENOS: Let's explore that. Have you had any recent trouble with anyone?
JOAN: Helen hobbles INTO VIEW, seating herself in a nearby MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91 9.
MELVENOS: Anyone whose displeasure you might've incurred in some way? For instance, just the other day we had a homicide concerning a dispute over a parking space.
JOAN: Who could it be?
MELVENOS: You're not married, I take it.
HELEN: She's in the process of a divorce.
MELVENOS: What about him?
HELEN: What about him? He's our conductor, he's an artist and not someone who'd ever.
JOAN: You mean Lewie? He'd never do anything like this.
MELVENOS: ( shrugs ) You never know. Hello? Anybody home?
ANDY: Hi, Joanie.
JOAN: ( under her breath ) Oh great.
ANDY: I just got in from Hawaii and thought I'd drop by for a minute. What the heck happened in here?
JOAN: Excuse me, it's my sister.
MELVENOS: ( not interested ) Uhm hmm.
JOAN: Andy, this is not the most opportune time. I happen to have had a burglary in here last Oh really? That's awful.
ANDY: Oh really? That's awful.
JOAN: So could I just call you later?
ANDY: Well, can't you give me one minute? I'd like to know if you got the manuscript I sent you. Who's that?
JOAN: Helen Dextra, you've met her Oh, I have? Anyway, did you read it?
ANDY: Oh, I have? Anyway, did you read it?
JOAN: Read what? I don't know what you're talking about.
ANDY: I'm talking about the book I've written about Red and me, that I sent you a copy of, is that so hard to follow?
JOAN: Oh no. You've written a book about Red Layls.
ANDY: Not just about him, Joanie, he's only one of many episodes in my life, you know that. Have you got a Perrier?
JOAN: No, I don't. Let me just call you at home later.
ANDY: I'm not going to be home. I'm checking into a hospital to have a bone spur removed from my foot. Then I'm going to New York, to meet with a top publisher. . which, incidentally, I would not care for Mr. Redmon, fecal- face Layls to know.
JOAN: Wait, I need to talk to you.
JOAN: I wanted to ask you, if there's somebody, who for some unknown reason, doesn't like me, what do you suggest I do?
MELVENOS: I might put some bars on the My name's Melveny, if you want to get in touch.
JOAN: Really though, I don't see how this could be somebody I know.
MELVENOS: Maybe not. Because I actually go miles out of my way to avoid conflictual
JOAN: Because I actually go miles out of my way to avoid conflictual
ANDY: And to top it off, my lawyer said, 'Don't worry, they're just pissing into the wind.'
ANDY: Some help I'm going to get from him, because he's scared to death of Red.
JOAN: Andy, are you telling me the
ANDY: ( turning to Joan ) Yes, he's afraid, they're all afraid, they're all off skiing.
HELEN: Speaking of lawyers. One fell on me while I was I mean, are you really going to New York?
JOAN: I mean, are you really going to New York?
ANDY: Yes, I'm going to New York, where I intend to remain in semi-private seclusion, at an undisclosed.
JOAN: Well maybe I could stay at your house while you're gone. So could you tell your housekeeper to.
ANDY: Wait, I just want you to hear what this colosal shit said about me, through his great white shark of a Pardon me, but I don't care what he said. My apartment, as you can see, is a complete shambles, I have a terrible headache, I've been informed that somebody doesn't like me, and I really don't want to stay here by myself!
JOAN: Pardon me, but I don't care what he said. My apartment, as you can see, is a complete shambles, I have a terrible headache, I've been informed that somebody doesn't like me, and I really don't want to stay here by myself!
ANDY: Fine, why don't you take my house
JOAN: Thank you.
ANDY: Gee whiz, why make such a big deal out of everything?
HARRY: ( moving to his desk ) Now don't start lazing around, June. Let's get with it.
JUNE: ( under her breath ) You get with it.
HARRY: It's very nice, Sluggo. Go hose out the kennel.
JUNE: ( reading the paper ) I think I'll go down to the Amazon, and get involved with the trees.
HARRY: Get this first, will you.
JUNE: They need people, because that hole is getting.
HARRY: ( cutting her off ) Remember, don't say I'm here 'til you find out who it is.
JUNE: Yeah?. I doubt that he's here at this present time. Yeah, maybe later today sometime. Who are you addressing? Uh, the executive kennel maid. uh-huh. Yeah. Okay, I'll tell him. So long.
HARRY: Yeah? Who was it?
JUNE: Ferde at something Motors. He wants two payments by tomorrow or he's gonna come an' repop the van.
HARRY: He goes back to reading. June returns to the bench, lies down again and starts grumbling:
JUNE: You know, you said you were going to get me a little Honda Elite to tool around in.
HARRY: Don't give me a bad time, lard. I've got enough trouble with Iwo Jima and her complaints, alright? Now the woman doesn't even believe you're my niece.
JUNE: Well, I'm not.
HARRY: That's not the point I'm making.
HARRY: You know what's gonna happen if I can't pay these damn breeders and get some adult dogs on the premises? Pretty damn quick, some asses are going to hit the pavement, believe me.
JUNE: So? I'm sick of dog turds anyway.
HARRY: Jesus, here I am, sitting in the center of a lot of wealth, the escalation in crime couldn't be better, and I'm not turning a damn nickel on it.
ON HARRY: Moving quickly into the doorway to the reception area:
HARRY: I'm in Vegas, delivering a couple a dogs to Wayne Newton. Duke, Fuss'! You don't know when to expect me.
JOAN: Socorro!! Wait a minute! I want to talk to you!
JOAN: Excuse me, Socorro, but do you mind if I ask what's happening, why are you leaving?
SOCORRO: No se, lo siento.
JOAN: I'm asking, where-are-you-going?
SOCORRO: ( indicating Balto ) Esto me yerno, Balthazar. You speak please Balto para mi.
JOAN: Yes, what's going on, are you bringing her back later or what?
BALTO: Yeah, Monday I bring her back.
JOAN: Monday? But this is Thursday, I can't stay here alone 'til Monday.
BALTO: Yeah, but she got her time off, too, man, you know.
JOAN: Well, this is just glorious.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As she leans down to look for the fallen part, a pickup truck can be seen parked down the street. The back of the driver's head ( BUTCH GABLE ) can be seen and on the side panel of the truck are the words "Canyon Tree Surgeons."
ANOTHER ANGLE: Giving up on the gates, Joan turns and moves with evident reluctance up the driveway, passing a three-car garage in which her Mercedes and another car hidden under a trap can be seen.
BUTCH: Hey, Andy! In the vicinity of the bedroom window, a man in work clothes can be seen pounding on the glass as he continues It's Butch! Get your ass in gear and say hello to your old drinking She calls loudly out to him:
JOAN: Andy's not here! He moves to the glass facade and peers inside, looking for the source of the voice:
BUTCH: Well, who are you, honey?
JOAN: She's out of town, and there happens to be several other people in here trying to sleep, so.
BUTCH: Whyn't you come out and say hello?
JOAN: Will you please go away!?
BUTCH: Come on, stick your head out the door an' let's see what you look MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/23/91 20.
JOAN: I'm sorry, but if you don't leave, I'm going to call the Foothill Well, fuck you, honey.
BUTCH: Well, fuck you, honey.
JOAN: Tch, where does she find these I was just trying to be nice. Go ahead an' call 'em, bitch, I don't give a shit.
BUTCH: I was just trying to be nice. Go ahead an' call 'em, bitch, I don't give a shit.
BUTCH: I'll just come back and kick your ass in for you.
HARRY: Duke, platz! Always the name first, and then the command.
HARRY: Now, in regard to any aggressor seeking to give you a bad time, I want to show you what you can expect from a dog of this caliber.
HARRY: Here we have the dog's arsenal, so to speak. The animal is trained to apply pressure to specific points of the body until the bone is more or less crushed. If the attacker is bearing a weapon of any kind, be it a gun, a club, a knife or what-have-you, the dog will, excuse me for . automatically go for the Oh god, what if I don't want him to do that?
JOAN: Oh god, what if I don't want him to do that?
HARRY: You want him to do that.
JOAN: No, I just want him to scare Believe me, this will scare them, as well as incapacitate their mind and any ability to maneuver against you.
HARRY: Believe me, this will scare them, as well as incapacitate their mind and any ability to maneuver against you.
JOAN: You know, I have an extremely sensitive reaction to dog dander, so maybe I shouldn't.
HARRY: Let me ask you something. I like to get a general picture of the individual situation I'm working
JOAN: I'm in the process of a divorce and I moved up here because my apartment was burglarized and. But I'm not entirely alone, there's a housekeeper here, and several friends.
HARRY: Well, the hills are hit heaven as far as burglaries go. And right up on Mulholland is where they found the fifth victim of the Westside Slasher.
JOAN: No, please, don't tell me about Believe me, I know what you're up against, being an attractive, and I take it, unattached woman, such as you are. But we're going to remedy that situation right now, and get you to feeling as safe as a little baby, alright? What've we got there so far?
HARRY: Believe me, I know what you're up against, being an attractive, and I take it, unattached woman, such as you are. But we're going to remedy that situation right now, and get you to feeling as safe as a little baby, alright? What've we got there so far?
JOAN: ( reading her Ober, platz, geh am platz, bringen, komm, sitz, fuss', fahrt and blieb.
HARRY: Well, that's enough for a start on the basic control commands.
HARRY: She holds Duke on a short lead, and as they move along a wooded area of the grounds, he leans in close, directing her in confidential tones:
HARRY: Alright now, Joan, give him the command, 'Duke, wachen sie.'
JOAN: Duke, wachen sie.
HARRY: Good. The dog is now on alert.
HARRY: This is really a nice piece of real estate you've got here.
JOAN: ( tense and It's not mine, it's my sister's.
HARRY: Oh, it's your sister's. And where's she?
JOAN: ( looking down Am I doing this right? Shouldn't I be prepared for something?
HARRY: Never look at your dog.
JOAN: Never look at your dog? Okay.
HARRY: Dammit, June, don't exhibit fear until I tell you!
JOAN: I am. Good boy, be nice.
HARRY: Give him the off command!
JOAN: I forgot it! You tell him! Duke,
HARRY: Duke, aus!
JOAN: My golly, that was incredible. I love this dog. Did you see that? I can't believe how strong he is. I felt like a rag doll.
HARRY: What did I tell you?
HARRY: Ordinarily I wouldn't do this, even on a temporary rental basis, because he's the absolute top security and attack dog in the
HARRY: Is this your sister?
JOAN: Yes, that's her, with her third husband, Eric Ellerman.
HARRY: Uhm hmm. Wait a minute, who's this guy, isn't this Red Layls?
JOAN: No kidding. Your sister's involved with Red Layls? This guy's gotta be one of the five or ten richest men in the country, with business connections all over the place.
HARRY: No kidding. Your sister's involved with Red Layls? This guy's gotta be one of the five or ten richest men in the country, with business connections all over the place.
HARRY: And she's your sister. That's amazing. I mean, this is an individual I'd really like to meet
HARRY: Boy, look at that figure. I have to say, your sister is really an attractive looking woman.
JOAN: Well, that's quite a compliment. I'll have to pass it on.
HARRY: I'll skip back up in a day or two, okay, just to see how you're And Joan, I want you to know, it's been a great pleasure doing business with you.
JOAN: And Joan, I want you to know, it's been a great pleasure doing business with you.
HARRY: And Joan, I want you to know, it's been a great pleasure doing business with you.
JOAN: Oh well. . thank you.
HARRY: Feel free to call on me for anything. Anytime of the night or day, 24 hours.
JOAN: And would you also thank your.
HARRY: I sincerely mean that.
JUNE: You big flirt.
HARRY: Come on, dumpty, don't start that. This is quality clientele. It calls for a certain kind of Just soak some of this in, will
JUNE: ( giving him Soak this.
HARRY: Start to pattern yourself. Breed Observe the woman, for Christ Oh screw her.
JUNE: Oh screw her.
HARRY: You don't screw this type of You would.
JUNE: You would.
HARRY: This is the kind of atmosphere we want to gravitate toward. Did she even ask me the cost? Dammit, I really respect that.
ON JUNE: grumbling as she moves to the passenger door:
JUNE: Well I don't, he isn't even your
MAN: How about a little smile.
LEWIE: This is supposed to sound virginal, ladies, so let's try to fake it.
ON DUKE: He lies on the lawn, secured to the base of a tree by a long leash. Eddy moves INTO VIEW and stepping over to Duke, leans down as though he intends to pet him:
JOAN: Don't do that.
EDDY: Don't do what?
JOAN: You're not supposed to look him straight in the eye.
EDDY: You have a dog you can't look in the eye, Joan?
JOAN: He's not just a dog. He's a Schutzhund trained attack dog.
EDDY: He steps back from the dog as Joan leans down to give Duke some water from the cup.
JOAN: I was told to avoid a direct gaze and always look at the base of the right or the left ear.
EDDY: You don't have to go to all this trouble, I've offered to stay up at your sister's with you?
JOAN: I can't tell you how mad I am at Lewie, that I have to leave him out here, tied to a tree.
EDDY: God, you're stubborn, Joan.
JOAN: I'm not stubborn, I'm so accommodating, it's sickening.
EDDY: But you won't tell me what's really bothering you. Why don't you confide in me anymore?
JOAN: I do.
EDDY: No you don't. Come on, talk to me. Let's go have a drink after
JOAN: ( reluctantly )
WOMAN: Eddy, you better come, he's rehearsing the tenors!
EDDY: I'm coming.! How about tomorrow night then?
JOAN: I don't know. Let's say maybe.
EDDY: ( slightly annoyed ) Well don't go out of your way,
JOAN: Eddy? Tomorrow's fine. Okay?
HARRY: Well, I'd have to say this place is a snap to break into.
JOAN: I knew it. I shouldn't have moved Don't worry. The dog'll take care of anyone trying to get inside.
HARRY: Don't worry. The dog'll take care of anyone trying to get inside.
JOAN: I don't know what to do. Maybe I should move into a motel.
HARRY: No, you don't have to do that. This is just some ding-dong that's trying to scare you.
JOAN: Well he's succeeded.
HARRY: But you don't want to give off that impression, by acting too timid or afraid, because that's what invites an aggressive attitude from certain types of I didn't invite this.
JOAN: I didn't invite this.
HARRY: For instance, don't go mincing along, taking mousey little steps, and waving your hanky, because you're drawing a target on yourself if you do.
JOAN: Do I do that?
HARRY: Well, let's see. Just walk back and forth the way you normally do.
JOAN: ( stands up ) Well I don't normally walk back and forth, but. okay.
JOAN: I'm sorry, I can't do it with you watching me.
HARRY: Okay, but keep in mind that you want to exhibit a very confident attitude. Look like you know what you're doing and where you're Just remember to stop short of appearing a little dykey, because that's not attractive.
JOAN: Just remember to stop short of appearing a little dykey, because that's not attractive.
HARRY: Just remember to stop short of appearing a little dykey, because that's not attractive.
JOAN: But I thought that's your point, no to attract.
HARRY: No, no, you always want to remain a little bit attractive. Otherwise that can set somone off too.
JOAN: This is just impossible.
JOAN: You just can't win.
HARRY: Sure you can, it's just a matter of degree.
JOAN: Well darn it, I give up.
HARRY: ( moves over to her Now what's this?
JOAN: I'm sorry but this is really getting to me.
HARRY: Tell you what. Let me take you out of here, buy you a drink, and see if we can't get your mind off these kind of things.
JOAN: That's very sweet of you, Harry. I'd like to do that.
JOAN: How long have you been divorced?
HARRY: Oh, I'd say seven or eight years, around there.
JOAN: And so you like, well, assuming you live a single existence, I mean most men don't seem to enjoy that, I've read. I have to tell you the truth. I've been observing your hands, and I have to use the word exquisite.
HARRY: I have to tell you the truth. I've been observing your hands, and I have to use the word exquisite.
JOAN: Really? Well.
HARRY: You're probably quite a singer too. I'd like to come down and catch you sometime.
JOAN: Yes, anytime. Do you like Classical music?
HARRY: Very much. Even to the degree that when it's playing on the radio, I sometimes have to turn the damn thing off.
JOAN: I'm sorry. I shouldn't have Yeah, symphonies, operettas, poems, things like that. All those type of things really get to
HARRY: Yeah, symphonies, operettas, poems, things like that. All those type of things really get to
JOAN: ( looking intensely Uhm hmm.
JOAN: You're full of surprises, Harry, you know that? That you've actually read Dante's Divine Comedy I mean.
HARRY: Well, it was a while back there that I did, yeah.
JOAN: You know that part? 'Yet as a wheel moves smoothly, free from jars, My will and my desire were turned by love, The love that moves the sun and other stars.' For some reason, the sublimity of that always touches me.
JOAN: You know, it's very sad. I look at my sister and all her marriages and affairs, not to mention the mess my own life is in, and I think it's very sad and very bleak that men and women can't manage to be friends.
HARRY: It depends on the man and woman you're talking about. They arrive at the fence and as she speaks she rests one of her hands on the railings:
JOAN: What a tragedy that sex is often such a barrier to friendship between men and women.
HARRY: There I disagree with you. He places his hand over hers. She remains silent a moment, restraining her response to the gesture. Then:
JOAN: You know Dante and Beatrice never slept together.
HARRY: Is that right? Oh yeah, I forgot that part.
JOAN: Well, anyway. I shouldn't have had so much wine. because I prefer to go a little slow here.
HARRY: We can go as slow as you want. why not?
JOAN: ( looking at him ) You think men and women can be Oh yeah, absolutely.
HARRY: Oh yeah, absolutely.
JOAN: Alright now, don't play too rough.
JOAN: No, no, Duke, don't do that, that's not nice. Now sitz. And behave yourself.
JOAN: You're not exactly a disinterested party. You're always promoting his cause.
HELEN: Number one, I've known the man for fifteen years, number two, he. loves you.
ON EDDY: seated on the lawn nearby, paring an apple with a Swiss Army knife:
HELEN: 'Always trying to connect with me, proposing private rehearsals at his apartment.' You know what he asked me yesterday?
JOAN: My piano tuner.
HELEN: Is he weird or something?
JOAN: Well everyone appears weird to me right now. So I put every possible name down, except for one, who happens to be post-
HELEN: I think it's him, the tree surgeon. He sounds very Just don't tell Lewie about the phone message or the thing I got in the mail, because he'll just use it to.
JOAN: Just don't tell Lewie about the phone message or the thing I got in the mail, because he'll just use it to.
HELEN: I already did.
JOAN: ( annoyed )
LEWIE: I'm extremely concerned about this situation. I don't want you living alone up there.
LEWIE: Now come on, wouldn't you feel much safer if you moved back into our house?
JOAN: No, I wouldn't feel comfortable about doing that.
LEWIE: Come here.
JOAN: Darn it, Lewie.
LEWIE: What? Are you afraid of your responses to me?
JOAN: ( amorously ) Why are you resisting?
LEWIE: ( amorously ) Why are you resisting?
JOAN: These are very upsetting, really shitty circumstances I'm dealing with and I.
LEWIE: Do you know how hard all this has been on me? Do you think it's that easy for me to admit I want you back?
JOAN: Couldn't you spare yourself then?
LEWIE: Are you seeing anybody? Just tell me that.
LEWIE: Come on, you're not the abstinent Please, don't judge me by your scrotal excesses, Lewie.
JOAN: Please, don't judge me by your scrotal excesses, Lewie.
LEWIE: I know you're seeing somebody.
JOAN: ( suspicious Are you spying on me?
LEWIE: Come on. Be open about it. Who is it?
JOAN: ( back to Lewie ) Alright, I am seeing someone,
LEWIE: I don't believe you. Who is it?
JOAN: You know, I hate to mention this but we're having a slight problem with Duke.
HARRY: ( hands him He keeps getting up and trying to ride on one's extremities.
JOAN: ( hands him He keeps getting up and trying to ride on one's extremities.
HARRY: Oh don't worry about that.
JOAN: Especially Socorro, who can't speak English, let alone German, and sometimes she has to go pulling him from room to room like a vacuum cleaner.
HARRY: No, that's just normal in most of your adult males. Some percentage of the time they're gonna attempt to make these vulgar motions on your person.
JOAN: It's not affecting you too much, is it?
HARRY: No, it's very nice.
JOAN: It's Chopin, a nocturne.
HARRY: You know what's affecting me?
JOAN: Night-piece, it means.
HARRY: You are.
JOAN: I think I should say something.
HARRY: Don't worry about it.
JOAN: That's the problem though, I want to be honest with you.
HARRY: There's no problem. Because I recently realized something about myself. That I've slept with a number of men in my life just because I didn't want them not to like me.
JOAN: Because I recently realized something about myself. That I've slept with a number of men in my life just because I didn't want them not to like me.
HARRY: ( not averse to Uhm hmm.
JOAN: But the thing is, I didn't like most of them that much, so why did I care whether they liked me or You know, I'm not one of these guys who's going to look upon you as an object.
HARRY: You know, I'm not one of these guys who's going to look upon you as an object.
JOAN: Oh, I know, that's not what I'm Because I look upon a woman as a What I'm saying is I don't know if right now I might not go to bed with you because I don't want to be alone, so I thought maybe we. could try to explore other modes,
HARRY: Because I look upon a woman as a What I'm saying is I don't know if right now I might not go to bed with you because I don't want to be alone, so I thought maybe we. could try to explore other modes,
JOAN: What I'm saying is I don't know if right now I might not go to bed with you because I don't want to be alone, so I thought maybe we. could try to explore other modes,
HARRY: Other modes?
JOAN: I mean, there are other ways of being intimate, that people don't even realize.
HARRY: Uhm hmm.
JOAN: Which doesn't mean I'm not attracted to you.
HARRY: But you don't want me to bring you Pardon me?
JOAN: Pardon me?
HARRY: Other modes is fine. You don't have to be shy with me. I've been asked to do do every kind of thing in the book.
JOAN: God, it's so hard to pioneer in this area. when you keep doing
ANDY: There's no phone in my room, or cable TV. I've had to sneak into this cell next to me, with some poor lithium zombie lying here like a comatose cabbage.
JOAN: Maybe I better take this. She tries to move closer to the phone, hindered by Harry's weight.
JOAN: Harry, excuse me, it's my sister. He moves off of her and she leans across his torso, pinning him to the bed as she addresses the speaker:
JOAN: Andy. It's Joan. INTERCUT BETWEEN Joan and:
ANDY: Oh you're there. Thank God.
JOAN: Where are you? Are you in New No, that's what I'm telling you. I went into the hospital first, for one day, just to have a simple bone spur.
ANDY: No, that's what I'm telling you. I went into the hospital first, for one day, just to have a simple bone spur.
JOAN: I know, you told me that, but where are you now?
ANDY: . and the next thing I know I'm transported some place the hell else, against my knowledge, while I was completely medicated.
JOAN: Andy, wait a minute.
ANDY: Do you understand the implications of this, I have no underpants on, and absolutely no recourse to my
JOAN: Oh God, this is because of Red, isn't it?
ANDY: Yes, it's because of Red, isn't that obvious!?
ANDY: And if he and that fuckface lawyer in his paid employ, think they can . Wait. I think I hear someone.
JOAN: What am I supposed to do?
HARRY: Find out where she is.
JOAN: Hello? Andy? You have to tell me where you are.
ANDY: I told you, I don't know where I am, these bastards are very clever.
HARRY: Ask her the name of the first Andy, tell me the name of the hospital you checked yourself into.
JOAN: Andy, tell me the name of the hospital you checked yourself into.
HARRY: Tell her we'll find it.
JOAN: We'll find it, okay, so don't I hear someone coming, I have to get off.
JOAN: . because I'm sure there's some simple explanation.
JOAN: What should I do? Should I call the police?
HARRY: He reaches to an ashtray on the night stand and quickly douses his cigarette:
HARRY: Let's just take a run out there.
ON JOAN: hesitant and fearful:
JOAN: You mean right now?
JOAN: I told her she shouldn't do this, I mean, to be so maniacally obsessed with this soul of mud that she'd even want to write a book about him, is beyond me.
HARRY: Well the guy must be doing something right to have amassed that amount of wealth.
JOAN: But she does this, you know, she just periodically drops the entire weight of her life on me like a ton of bricks.
HARRY: Joan, can I make a suggestion?
JOAN: Yes, please, anything.
HARRY: You better try an keep up a little with the flow or we're gonna get Ellerman, Antonia. She was admitted on the third of the month and was signed out at 3:45 P.M. on the fourth, by her personal How do you know he was her Hell, I could come in here and say I was a doctor an' sign somebody And even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's According to this he was her Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
JOAN: How do you know he was her Hell, I could come in here and say I was a doctor an' sign somebody And even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's According to this he was her Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
HARRY: Hell, I could come in here and say I was a doctor an' sign somebody And even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's According to this he was her Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
JOAN: And even if he was a doctor, it doesn't mean he was my sister's According to this he was her Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
JOAN: Then who was the doctor who operated on her foot?
JOAN: That's a lie. She was in here for an operation, then she was drugged and taken out of here against her That couldn't possibly happen, we have very strict regulations MAN TROUBLE - Rev. 4/22/91 52.
HARRY: Okay, let's stop wasting time here, where is this guy, what's his name?
JOAN: I can't believe this, you mean there's no phone number or I'm sorry, but I didn't type this What kind of business are you running here, buddy?
HARRY: What kind of business are you running here, buddy?
HARRY: Nothing. No Dr. Monroe Park.
JOAN: How am I supposed to find this man? Maybe he used a false name, or maybe he isn't even a doctor.
HARRY: I've got a couple of ideas here. First, we want to try an' connect with Red Layls.
JOAN: No, I don't want anything to do with Red, I'm terrified of him.
HARRY: There's nothing to be afraid of, believe me.
JOAN: I mean, you hear all kinds of things, about government kickbacks, and Panamanian drug couriers and.
HARRY: I know these type of guys. You take away their money and their power, and what are they.
JOAN: No, really, I have to do something. I have to go to the He stops walking and takes a hold of her hand:
HARRY: Just hold off a bit on that, honey, will you?
JOAN: Oh, that's nice.
HARRY: You called me honey.
JOAN: You called me honey.
HARRY: Well that's what you are.
JOAN: Harry, this isn't your problem and I don't want to draw you into it.
HARRY: Don't worry, we're going to find your sister. Everything's going to turn out
VITA: Okay, go ahead, I've gotta hear this. Who is it this time?
HARRY: No, it's not what you think. This is a very unique individual I'm talking about. Plus there's a mind there, as well as a body and a face.
VITA: Didn't I hear this before, about the hostess at Denny's, that was a college graduate and had a mole like Elizabeth Taylor?
HARRY: I'm telling you, this is something completely different. You gotta meet her. She sings opera and has the hands of a hula dancer.
VITA: Oh. Fred, you mean?
HARRY: Yeah, that's him. How do you think I could get a hold of him?
VITA: Oh gee, I think he's moved out of the area and went into gourmet
HARRY: June, mouthing "There's some guy over there wants to see you." Then she gestures to a Continental Town Car in the parking lot next to The House of Bliss.
MONCRIEF: Mr. Bliss, I'd like to have word with you, if I may.
HARRY: You're talking to the wrong godammed party, you know that?
MONCRIEF: I think it's in your best interest to hear me out.
HARRY: No, you hear me out, friend.
HARRY: Look, I happen to have a very high regard for this party. And maybe I even have some feelings of a personal nature here.
MONCRIEF: Well I don't want to appear to be taking unfair advantage of you.
HARRY: Goddamned right.
MONCRIEF: But in developing certain information on you, it's come to our attention that your name isn't Harry Bliss. That in fact, your name is Eugene Earl Axline.
HARRY: Wait a minute.
MONCRIEF: And that both the I.R.S., and an impressive number of creditors in several Eastern cities. . seem to be somewhat interested in your whereabouts.
HARRY: You know, that's not necessarily entirely accurate, I mean, I don't know where you come up with these so-called facts, but. I can't go sneaking around, stealing this lady's property.
MONCRIEF: I'd like to pose that the name and reputation of this very decent man, is not the property of Mrs. Ellerman, or her sister.
MONCRIEF: And it's my hope that we can avoid any unpleasant eventualities, either for you, or for someone you have such admirable feelings What do you mean, 'unpleasant'?
HARRY: What do you mean, 'unpleasant'?
MONCRIEF: I mean that Mr. Layls is prepared to do whatever it takes to confiscate this document. And if you'd like to be of some assistance to us, by finding it and turning it over to me, he'd like to offer you this very generous gift. Jesus Christ, I hardly know the woman. I'm just renting a dog to her, that's all. What kind of a person do you take me for?
HARRY: Jesus Christ, I hardly know the woman. I'm just renting a dog to her, that's all. What kind of a person do you take me for?
ON BUTCH: He watches sullenly as her car disappears through the gates, then lifts a can of beer to his mouth and drinks.
JOAN: Oh, Socorro.
JOAN: Socorro steps closer and glancing into the the now disorderly contents of the drawer, shakes her head
SOCORRO: No. No es mi.
JOAN: La manuscripto . de mi hermana, Andy, si? I go. toda la casa. Everywhere. Looking y looking. And no es anywhere. Sabe usted?
SOCORRO: No se, no entiendo. Lo siento.
JOAN: I told this detective I wanted to press charges against Red Layls, for abducting Andy, for burglarizing my apartment, for breaking into her house.
HARRY: Oh come on, you're way off.
JOAN: And that he's been trying to scare and intimidate me in case I might have read something in her manuscript that he doesn't want anybody to know. And you know what he said? That I haven't given him probable cause to even go and question Red Layls, or his Well, he's right, I could've told you that. This is a man who goes fishing with the President, honey. He's a little high up to go around burglarizing people and sending them nasty notes. So why don't you just ease back on this thing for awhile. Life's too godammed short.
HARRY: Well, he's right, I could've told you that. This is a man who goes fishing with the President, honey. He's a little high up to go around burglarizing people and sending them nasty notes. So why don't you just ease back on this thing for awhile. Life's too godammed short.
JOAN: I can't do that, Harry. This is my sister. I can at least make out a missing persons report on her, and then I want to talk to the private detective friend of I'm trying to chase the guy down, okay? But don't go and make yourself sick.
HARRY: I'm trying to chase the guy down, okay? But don't go and make yourself sick.
HARRY: I mean, Jesus, why don't you just get this damn thing and hand it over to me and I'll give it to these guys.
JOAN: You mean to Red?
HARRY: Yeah, to Red, or whoever.
JOAN: Well if I ever find, it, that's the last thing I'd do with it.
HARRY: Dammit, you're making my work more difficult for me, you know that!
JOAN: What is this, have I come at the wrong time or something?
HARRY: I tell you what the hell to do and you don't listen to me!
JOAN: Well, someone abates your maidenhood and suddenly feels they can start ordering you I'm not ordering you around. I'm just giving you my opinion. And maybe I get tired of hearing about this stuff all the time, this book business, this manu-whatever, and Red Layls, and your sister.
HARRY: I'm not ordering you around. I'm just giving you my opinion. And maybe I get tired of hearing about this stuff all the time, this book business, this manu-whatever, and Red Layls, and your sister.
JOAN: Oh. Well. I'm sorry if I've overtaxed you with my problems, Harry, but I never asked you to consider them a part of your work. So why don't we speak when you're in a better frame of mind.
HARRY: Ah honey, now.
JOAN: Aw honey yourself.
ON HARRY: again seated at his desk. He stares out the window, in the throes of a moral conflict. Then making some sudden resolve he opens a drawer, takes out an envelope and a paperback book and lays them on the desk.
JOAN: Oh, Socorro, please-keep-the-dog . el perro, in. in piso inferior, por favor. exercise room. Tiene allergy.
SOCORRO: Ah, si. Duke, venga aqui.
JOAN: 'Any scars, marks or tattoos.'
ON JOAN: as she throws the pen down onto the coffee table:
JOAN: ( to Helen ) Come on, let me drive you home.
HARRY: What's her problem.
HARRY: Now what's she complaining about? HARRY HOST ( V.O. )
HARRY: . I come over here to look at the ball game and you give me these clowns.
HARRY: I mean, what's wrong with these You want a know something?
JUNE: You want a know something?
HARRY: They don't want to hear the truth, that's what disturbs me.
JUNE: There's some people that don't treat me like you do.
HARRY: You tell them the truth and they come at you with a cleaver.
JUNE: I know one guy that says very complimentary things to me, like that I have nice features and a sense of humor.
HARRY: What guy?
JUNE: Some guy I met, that likes me.
HARRY: You're going to leave me, lard, just after I've broken you in, and taught you the fine art of dog As if you cared.
JUNE: ( waits for a As if you cared.
HARRY: ( shakes his ( then back to the TV ) What's the score?
JOAN: Helen, quick, get in the car!
HELEN: Looking in the direction of Joan's gaze she sees the dark figure of a man wearing a hood over his head, stepping out from behind the sheet of plywood, holding the ax in his hand and as he moves toward the front of the car, she He lifts the ax over his head and swings it down vio- lently, cleaving the blade into the hood of the Mercedes. ( From inside the house, DUKE can be heard BARKING furiously. ) Joan leaps from the car and in stark terror, runs out of the garage toward the house. Stopped by the sounds of HELEN'S HYSTERIA, she turns around to see her, hampered by her crutches and unable to move. ON the hooded man's eyes, shifting their homicidal intent from Helen to Joan. Joan runs back into the garage and frantically tries to pull Helen away from her death grip on the door handle. The man begins stalking around the front of the car toward her. She grabs one of Helen's crutches and raises it up as if to hit him. As he steps back to the ax and tries to extract it from the hood, she suddenly rushes at him and begins belaboring him with the crutch. He lifts an arm to fend off the blows while his other hand con- tinues to tug at the ax handle.
JOAN: Helen! Help me!
HELEN: I can't! I can't move!!
HARRY: Why didn't you have the damn dog with you, that's what he's for!
JOAN: I told you, he was in the house.
HARRY: What the hell good is that! You have to have him with you at all As they move into the living room, Helen, wearing Joan's chenille robe, her hair wildly askew, can be seen in the kitchen area, holding a bottle of liquor in one hand and searching through a cupboard for a glass.
JOAN: No you didn't, I said he was dangerous, and you said he wasn't.
HARRY: Yeah, but that's before he tried to part your hair with an axe!
JOAN: I don't know if it was him. Maybe it was this tree surgeon.
HARRY: Wait a minute. How tall was he? About six one? Kind of ugly?
HELEN: He was about your height.
JOAN: No, he wasn't, he was much taller.
HELEN: Well let's not quibble, for god sakes. The man is a complete And excuse me for saying, but this isn't a job for an amateur.
JOAN: But wait, he couldn't be the same man who burglarized my apartment, because that's before I came up Forget about him. I know what I'm talking about.
HARRY: Forget about him. I know what I'm talking about.
HELEN: Joan, if you don't call the police, I'm not staying here.
HARRY: Guy like Red Layls have hit men working for them, that drive them around and do their dirty work for Gee whiz, first it isn't Red, now it is Red. I can't keep up with these sudden reversals.
JOAN: Gee whiz, first it isn't Red, now it is Red. I can't keep up with these sudden reversals.
HELEN: Alright. I'm calling a cab.
JOAN: You know what I think? It's more than one person.
HARRY: It's not more than one person. I'm telling you who the hell it is!
JOAN: It doesn't seem like something he'd do.
HARRY: Dammit, Joan!!
JOAN: God, what is this?! I can't say anything to you anymore, you're so darn touchy!
HARRY: You can mention anything you want, honey. I'm just trying to keep you from turning up face down, that's all.
JOAN: It's Andy's
HARRY: It's very becoming on you.
JOAN: Maybe I don't quite fill it out.
HARRY: Yes you do.
JOAN: He remains seated, looking at her. She reaches to the answering machine on the night stand, disconnects it, then once again looks over at him.
JOAN: What are you going to do now? Are you going to leave?
HARRY: Yeah, I'm going to skip down the hill, take care of a few things, pick up some clothes.
JOAN: Could you be back for dinner, around 7:00?
HARRY: Yeah. Sure.
JOAN: She waves to him and pulls the rest of the way out of the garage, revealing the ax handle still embedded in the front of the car, its handle sharply angled up from the hood like a soup ladle.
HARRY: Ella no esta aqui.
SOCORRO: Ella no esta aqui.
HARRY: I just want to look for my. . watch, I think I left it. . in there.
SOCORRO: Ah si, es okay.
HARRY: Thanks, Soco.
ANGLE UPSTAIRS: He opens and inspects the contents of the same drawers and cupboards Joan had searched.
ADELE: Harry! What the hell do you think you're doing?
HARRY: I just got a phone call, honey, from a prominent entertainer up in Vegas, a very well-known singer.
ADELE: Who is it, Paul Anka?
HARRY: He's a rock star, you probably wouldn't know the name. Anyway, I gotta run a couple a dogs up to You know, it's T-minus zero and counting, Harry, on this whole shitty deal.
ADELE: You know, it's T-minus zero and counting, Harry, on this whole shitty deal.
HARRY: Now Iwo, don't blow this way out of proportion. You think I want to do this. I need the extra cash right now, believe me.
ADELE: If you leave, I'm getting Top Lock to come over and change the front and back doors!
ADELE: I mean it! You get in that van, and I'm taking my building back and putting in a Fingernail Salon!
HARRY: Come on now, honey, don't say things like that.
HARRY: Let's not make a big issue out of
HARRY: It's really very nice looking, Do you like it?
JOAN: Do you like it?
HARRY: Yeah. I do. Very much.
JOAN: You're welcome.
HARRY: Yeah it's great and it's something I really needed, so.
JOAN: Is anything wrong?
HARRY: No. Nothing's wrong. Everything's
JOAN: ( without looking up ) You're probably wondering why I'm
HARRY: I was just thinking that I find this moody side of you very Oh, uh-huh.
JOAN: I was just thinking that I find this moody side of you very Oh, uh-huh.
HARRY: Oh, uh-huh.
JOAN: In fact, if you want to know, and I can see you're dying to. I completely adore you.
HARRY: Well, same here, honey.
JOAN: Why are you all wet?
HARRY: You know, there is something I feel I gotta say here, Joan, that's been preying on my mind. Something I maybe should've handled a bit differently with you from the start, about this particular situation I'm in.
JOAN: What situation?
HARRY: Well, you recall I mentioned to you a while back, that I was SOCORRO HARRY
SOCORRO: Mira, alli estoy.
MONCRIEF: I have no knowledge whatsoever of Mrs. Ellerman's so-called book, or her alleged disappearance, which appears to have all the ear marks of a publicity stunt.
JOAN: ( to Harry, outraged ) Can you believe this?!
JOAN: Do you see that?
JOAN: Yes it was.
JOAN: What did she say? San Dimas? Where's San Dimas? Without waiting for his answer, she strides across the Let's call the T.V. station and find out.
JOAN: Let's call the T.V. station and find out.
HARRY: This is not the way you want to go about this, honey. As she moves OUT OF VIEW into the living room, he turns to Socorro:
HARRY: Tell her, Soco. She shouldn't mess with these people.
HARRY: Will you just once take the benefit of my advice?
JOAN: First you tell me I go around acting too timid.
HARRY: Yeah, but this is a whole different situation here.
JOAN: And now when I suddenly feel like I could save the Pope in an earthquake, you start trying to.
HARRY: This is not the Pope we're talking about here, believe me.
JOAN: That's just a figure of speech.
HARRY: Dammit, Joan, these people are holding all the cards. They'll probably throw you into that bughouse with your sister.
HARRY: You want to go there and call 'em a bunch of names, throw a lot of accusations at them? They don't care. People with that kind of money behind them, with their kind of connections, they never go to jail, you never see them behind Am I getting through to you?
HARRY: Though evidently very troubled, she nevertheless goes into the garage, opens the driver's door and gets into the car.
HARRY: ( to himself ) Jesus Christ.
HARRY: This is just nuts, what you're Will you stop trying to undermine me every inch of the way.
JOAN: Will you stop trying to undermine me every inch of the way.
HARRY: ( gesturing out the Look at this goddamned traffic.
JOAN: Anyway, I didn't ask you to drag along with me.
HARRY: You're the one that's dragging Go around the goddamned truck.
JOAN: Don't tell me what to do.
HARRY: Okay, just let me drive the goddamned car, that's all I ask.
JOAN: Why should I let you drive?
HARRY: Why? I'll tell you why, because you're a terrible driver, that's Oh, now all the ugly little truths are coming out.
JOAN: Oh, now all the ugly little truths are coming out.
HARRY: You operate this vehicle like it was a cane with a red tip painted on the end of it.
JOAN: Don't talk to me, Harry. I mean it, just don't say another word to
HARRY: ( gesturing at the Driving around with a goddamned ax stuck in your car.
JOAN: And now look at me. I've got purpose tremors.
HARRY: Is something the fuck bothering you, pal?
HARRY: Can I at least offer some advice?
JOAN: Good. Just barge into the place, honey, and play the big hero. When he tells you your sister's not there, what're you going to do, cry?
HARRY: Good. Just barge into the place, honey, and play the big hero. When he tells you your sister's not there, what're you going to do, cry?
JOAN: Okay. What?
JOAN: This isn't going to work. You look like a busboy.
HARRY: Excuse me, Nurse.
LONG SHOT: ON Harry, Joan and Nurse One. Presently the Nurse ges- tures to a stairwell leading to the second floor. Joan and Harry move in the direction indicated.
JOAN: I hope you know what you're doing.
HARRY: Don't worry. Just do what I told
HARRY: What's the problem, dear?
NURSE ONE: We're trying to contact Doctor Park, just to be sure he's authorized you to examine Mrs. Ellerman, because you know, we have to follow certain.
HARRY: I understand. You're doing your Where did your assistant.?
NURSE ONE: ( trying to look Where did your assistant.?
HARRY: She had to step inside for a moment, to relieve herself.
ANDY: And if this little kinglet of corporate shit thinks he can get away with this, he's greatly mistaken. Just wait 'til he hears what I'm going to come out with Joan thrusts her skirt at Andy:
JOAN: Put this on.
ANDY: Remember when he passed me off as staff and I was put on official government payroll all through Maui and the Yucatan Mission?
JOAN: No, I don't. And hurry up, will And as Andy steps into the skirt, Joan takes over the uncompleted buttoning chores:
ANDY: Yes you do, remember, when I almost died of the vomito negro? Well that's when he was doing all that illegal oil drilling off the Mexican Gulf. She turns to look critically at her face in the mirror:
ANDY: Have you got any lipstick?
NURSE ONE: I assume you're a fairly recent associate of the doctor's?
HARRY: That's very correct.
NURSE ONE: Uhm hmmm. What do you specialize I'd say female troubles, mainly.
HARRY: I'd say female troubles, mainly.
NURSE ONE: Oh, so Dr. Park feels there's a gynecological involvement here.
HARRY: Sometimes he does, yes. By the way, did anyone ever tell you what attractive eyebrows you Oh, well, no, they haven't.
NURSE ONE: ( thrown ) Oh, well, no, they haven't.
NURSE ONE: Excuse me a minute, Doctor.
HIS POV: of Joan and Andy, the former whispering urgently in ref- erence to the latter's red hair:
JOAN: What about her hair?
ANDY: Who's he?
HIS POV: of the Second Nurse on her way back to the main corridor, while Nurse One is returning to Harry. As she comes up to him:
NURSE ONE: That was my superior. She tells me Dr. Park is in surgery and she suggests that you wait in the Administrative Lounge until we can get a hold of him. Would that be
HARRY: He moves to the door, opens it, blocking the Nurse's view into it with his body.
HARRY: Which way?
NURSE ONE: ( gesturing a direction ) That way, Doctor, and thank you very much for your patience.
HARRY: Don't mention it.
ANDY: And this man, who wouldn't know the truth if it came up and spit him in the eye, is accusing me of She hands him the skirt out through the window:
ANDY: You know what that prick had his lawyer say to me? Harry lays the skirt on the hood of the car and begins getting out of the doctor's jacket.
ANDY: That I was a pretty, grudge- bearing little malcontent, grasping at some splinter of celebrity for myself at his expense. Can you believe that? She hands him out the blouse and he turns politely away from her semi-nudity as he hands her the doctor's jacket.
HARRY: Here, put this on.
ANDY: I mean, the arrogance. What did she say your name was?
HARRY: ( flirtatiously ) Have you got a cigarette, Harry?
ANDY: ( flirtatiously ) Have you got a cigarette, Harry?
HARRY: Stay in the car. Don't talk to anybody, and I'll be right back. He immediately moves off, rolling Joan's clothes into a bundle and heading back to the hospital grounds.
HARRY: He turns and moves OUT OF SIGHT.
JOAN: A soft WHISTLE comes from the vicinity of the windows behind her, followed by Harry's voice, whispering:
HER POV: He stands several feet below, looking up at the window.
HARRY: Is that you?
JOAN: Yes, it's me. Hurry up, will you!
HARRY: I'm having a little trouble getting back in.
JOAN: Oh great, Harry. What have you got me into?
JOAN: Don't worry, honey.
JOAN: You have to get me out of here!
HARRY: Everything's under control, just hang on a few more minutes and I'll be right back, okay?
MONCRIEF: Andy? It's Larry Moncrief.
HIS POV: of the unresponsive figure under the covers.
MONCRIEF: Would you care to sit up for a minute? I'd like to talk to you.
ANDY: You son of a bitch!
RED: Who is it?
ANDY: Who the hell do you think it is?!
RED: Sweetheart? Is that you?
ANDY: No thanks to you, it's me.
HARRY: Aw, Jesus.
MONCRIEF: Before he arrives, I'd like you to take a look at a list of certain deletions and expurgations, which if agreed to.
MONCRIEF: . Red is, very generously, I think, prepared to offer his sanction to a sanitized version of your book.
MONCRIEF: I think you should know, that if you push this too far, you run the risk of having him withdraw his consent to your well-being. I don't think we want that, do we,
JOAN: Andy's not here.
MONCRIEF: I can see that, Miss Spruance. Would you care to tell me where she is?
JOAN: As a matter of fact, she happens to be on her way to the police right now, accompanied by a close friend of mine.
JOAN: Don't say a word, Harry! I'm not
MONCRIEF: Sturge exits to the hallway, leaving the door open.
MONCRIEF: I think you better come in here, Mr. Bliss.
HARRY: In the distant b.g., the previously seen old man is being wheeled along the main walkway by a hospital orderly.
JOAN: Just go get Andy and leave, will That's what I'm trying to tell I'm a little disappointed to find you defaulting on our agreement.
HARRY: That's what I'm trying to tell I'm a little disappointed to find you defaulting on our agreement.
MONCRIEF: I'm a little disappointed to find you defaulting on our agreement.
JOAN: What agreement?
HARRY: ( to Moncrief ) Bullshit! I never agreed to ( to Joan ) This asshole approached me and tried to bribe me into working for them, and I told him to go to hell!
ON MONCRIEF: I believe an agreement was implicit in your acceptance of my check.
MONCRIEF: I believe an agreement was implicit in your acceptance of my check.
HARRY: Oh, you want to see your check?
HARRY: Honey, don't go by anything this guy says, because I'm the only one who knows what the hell I'm doing. It just slipped my mind, I was going to tell you. See? I never cashed the fucking
JOAN: Are you alright?
JOAN: No you're not. What did that bastard do to you?
ANDY: I need a Kleenex.
JOAN: You know what they're trying to do, don't you? To force you into signing some kind of agreement Wait, I want to tell you what he said to me.
ANDY: Wait, I want to tell you what he said to me.
JOAN: And when he said it. . he had a tear in his eye.
ANDY: And when he said it. . he had a tear in his eye.
ON RED: Glancing sourly at the two women, as he and Moncrief
MONCRIEF: Well this moves to the top of the list, Red, as one of your more stunning achievements.
RED: ( irritably ) Get me something cold to drink, will you?
MONCRIEF: ON SISTERS Speaking in hushed, and in Joan's case, urgent tones, while, in the b.g., Moncrief exits to the hallway.
ON SISTERS: Speaking in hushed, and in Joan's case, urgent tones, while, in the b.g., Moncrief exits to the hallway.
JOAN: Andy, you don't know what you're saying. You're suffering from hostage syndrome or something.
ANDY: Well, after all I do love him.
JOAN: You 'love' him?!
ANDY: Yes, he's been a very important man in my life, you know that.
JOAN: ( raising her voice ) Oh, now he's not a fecal-faced, great white shark!
ANDY: I don't know where she got that. Will you please keep your voice down. He's very sensitive to what people say.
JOAN: 'Sensitive'? Have you lost all your beads?! This man had you kidnapped and kept in a drugged stupor for the last three weeks, and now he's.
ON HARRY: Stepping into the doorway, holding Struge in a painful
HARRY: Alright, what the hell's going on in here?
RED: Who's this?
MONCRIEF: That's the dog trainer.
RED: I thought he was working for us.
MONCRIEF: Well there seems to be a little grey area there, Red.
RED: ( to Harry ) Come over here, I want to talk to
HARRY: Mr. Layls.
JOAN: Will you listen to me! This man is not only a bastard, he's a scummy, soul-less little thug and a criminal!
ANDY: Are you implying that I have defective judgement in men, Joanie? I just want a say, that though you're someone in a category I admire, you've gone to some lengths on this thing here, that I don't entirely agree with.
HARRY: I just want a say, that though you're someone in a category I admire, you've gone to some lengths on this thing here, that I don't entirely agree with.
RED: Sit down. I have a neck condition and it aggravates me to have to look up at you.
HARRY: Okay. No problem.
RED: You know, I'm not in the best of health right now, and I've been advised to avoid excitement.
HARRY: Oh, uh huh.
RED: ( holds the glass up More sugar.
JOAN: And furthermore, this 'sensitive' man's lawyer more than implied they were willing to put your feet, as well as probably mine, into a block of cement!
ANDY: Oh that's just all talk. Would somebody please get me my
RED: Just put yourself, Harry, for a moment, in the shoes of a man whose sole intention is to leave the world a better place than he found it, only to discover those intentions have been painfully slandered by someone he'd given both his heart and his economic support to, not to mention his
HARRY: ( nodding his head )
ON JOAN: looking over at Harry, protesting loudly:
JOAN: Harry, I can't believe you're sitting there nodding your head and having a tea party with these I'm not nodding my head, honey, I'm just listening to the man.
HARRY: I'm not nodding my head, honey, I'm just listening to the man.
ON ANDY: as Harry, in the b.g., resumes his exchange with Red:
ANDY: Who is this guy, anyway? Isn't he a little sleazy, Joanie, a bit infra dig? I mean Lewie's a bit of a stiff, but.
JOAN: You're going to talk to me about sleaze, when you consorted with some maniac tree surgeon, who was flicking his tongue out at me like some rutting iguana, and groping at his naturalia at three in the Oh, 'him.'
ANDY: Oh, 'him.'
JOAN: Oh 'him'?! He came at me with an Well, he's very immature.
ANDY: Well, he's very immature.
JOAN'S POV: of the beleaguered maiden she hoped to rescue, pausing on her way, to lean down and kiss the cheek of the dragon she meant to slay.
ON JOAN: As Moncrief steps up to her, offering a glass of tea:
MONCRIEF: Miss Spruance, would you care for No, thank you.
JOAN: No, thank you.
ON RED: Raising a baleful eye to Joan:
ON JOAN: Standing above Layls:
HARRY: Honey, he's not supposed to get . Not only for having my apartment burglarized but for breaking into Andy's house, as well as hiring someone to frighten, harass and intimidate me!
JOAN: ( overlapping him ) . Not only for having my apartment burglarized but for breaking into Andy's house, as well as hiring someone to frighten, harass and intimidate me!
HARRY: You know, maybe you better not.
JOAN: No, Dammit!
RED: I never much cared for you, young lady. And I find your display of anger both unattractive and Now wait a minute.
HARRY: ( to Red ) Now wait a minute.
JOAN: ( overlapping ) I'm not here to beg your good
RED: What is it?
RED: Tell him to hold on. First, you assume far more interest in you on my part than exists. I had nothing whatsoever to do with your supposed misfortunes.
JOAN: ( very emphatic ) I don't believe you!
RED: And as regards Andy's house, I'd have no need to break into Andy's house, because I own Andy's house.
JOAN: I don't care whose house you own, you're nothing but a slimy, mean- minded little hood!
ON ANDY: Partially dressed, stepping into the doorway and combing her hair as she addresses Joan:
ANDY: Will you please stop interfering in my personal life, Joanie.
JOAN: Andy, you know something?
ANDY: Well if you're going to take this kind of grumpy attitude, I certainly won't. Harry, where are my clothes?
JOAN: Harry, where are my clothes?
HARRY: He stands up and Red steps INTO FRAME beside him, a distressed look on his face as he listens to Park ( V.O. ):
JOAN: Will you go get them RED ( V.O. ) please, I'd like to leave. Wait a minute, don't Harry moves around Red and steps up to Joan:
JOAN: No, I don't.
RED: Will you people be quiet, I can't hear this. Go ahead. It's as sound a muscular bag as I've ever seen and the pericordium is a gorgeous color.
RED: Well whose heart is it? Give me a I don't have any specific data, but the host was around 35 and she was obviously very healthy.
RED: Godammit, Monroe! I told you I don't want a woman's Don't worry, it's not going to change you in any way.
RED: How do you know?! You don't know Look, let's just get it done.
JOAN: Would you please get me my clothes.
MONCRIEF: I wanted to tell you a moment ago, that I was privileged to see you at the Bowl on the Fourth of July.
HARRY: So what. I'm talking to this lady.
NIGHT: Andy pauses in her application of mascara, shifting her gaze to Red's reflection in the mirror as he enters behind her:
RED: You can't tell me what kind of a woman she was?! And if she was so godammed healthy, why is she dead?!
MONCRIEF: And I was especially moved by your rendition of 'The Battle Hymn of
HARRY: Never mind that shit. Tell her.
MONCRIEF: Well, shall we start with the fact that you're a married man. . and then go on from there?
HARRY: Wait a minute, honey.
RED: You know whose heart this body- snatcher is trying to give me?! A victim of somebody called the Westside Slasher! And this is the doctor you recommended to me! You're killing me, Monroe! You know that?! You're pushing me to the goddamned wall!
HARRY: Honey, there's a simple explanation to all of this, if you want me to go into it. I was trying to tell you at dinner.
RED: What in the hell should I do?!
ANDY: So let's just go there, sweetheart, and have him sew the darn thing in.
HARRY: Look, you know, you live a life, honey, you make some mistakes. You get married for maybe mutual benefits, or business considerations weighing on you at the time, and because you don't think the right person is ever going to come along.
JOAN: I would never have knowingly become involved with a married man.
HARRY: I know that, that's why I was trying to come out and tell you.
JOAN: Please, I don't want to discuss it I bet you never read Dante, either.
HARRY: Now there you're 75 percent wrong.
JOAN: I mean, I can't believe it, that you'd lie to me about this.
HARRY: Okay, I lied. Didn't you ever tell a lie? If not let me kiss your high heel.
JOAN: I'm going in the house.
HARRY: Wait. Can I call you tomorrow, just to see how you're feeling? Or how things are going?
JOAN: I have a dress rehearsal tomorrow and a concert on Friday. That's all I care about right now.
HARRY: Don't say that, please. I'm asking you to just give me the chance to clear up all these things in my life, because.
JOAN: No. I didn't extricate myself from the infidelities of one man, just to fall into the arms of the prince of prevaricators.
HARRY: Well, I may be all kinds of a son of a bitch, and the prince of whatever, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't, when it comes down to it, stand up and take the bullet for you. That's not what I observed, Harry.
JOAN: That's not what I observed, Harry.
HARRY'S POV: as Joan crosses the driveway to the house, moves up the steps to the front door and disappears inside.
HARRY: Hey, Lee, how are you. I just this minute got back from Vegas. I was dealing a couple of dogs to Paul Anka. I was about to give you a call.
LEE: Don't embarrass us both, man. Just give me the dog back, and let's preserve the friendship.
HARRY: Lee, I'm in the neighborhood of getting my hands on the money. I'm about to close a business deal with Vark Zulethian of Zulethian Carpets, you've probably heard of Come on, I know these dodges backwards and forwards. I need the dog. He's up for a TV series.
LEE: Come on, I know these dodges backwards and forwards. I need the dog. He's up for a TV series.
ON HARRY: as Lee opens his van and takes out a leash.
HARRY: Look, our agreement was I could buy the dog back. He's the only thing I got to prove to people what I can do, and all I'm asking you, Lee, is.
LEE: Don't make me have to get legal with you, Harry. You sold me the animal, then as a personal favor, I let you borrow him, to demo to some V.I.P.. that probably don't even exist. You haven't been straight with me, man. Just go get the dog.
HARRY: Duke, geh im wagen. Why don't you take this dog, Harry. He's green, but maybe you could do something with him. No, I don't want the dog.
LEE: Why don't you take this dog, Harry. He's green, but maybe you could do something with him. No, I don't want the dog.
HARRY: No, I don't want the dog.
LEE: ( giving him the Go ahead, man. Take him. If you don't want him, pick up some ( closing the van ) Sell him for a pet.
HARRY: Do me one favor, will you? Say 'owner' if you want to, but don't say 'trainer.' I trained that dog.
LEE: ( claps him on the Let me think about that, okay?
VITA: What do you want, Harry? You want the Meatloaf Special?
HARRY: 102 OMITTED 102 103 INT. MUSIC CENTER/BACKSTAGE AREA - ON JOAN - NIGHT 103
HELEN: A few of us are going to grab a bite. You want to join us?
JOAN: No, go ahead. I'm not hungry.
HELEN: Well, who's going to drive you I'll call a cab.
JOAN: I'll call a cab.
EDDY: I can take her home.
HELEN: Good, because I don't want you to be alone. Alright? See you tomorrow.
JOAN: Thank you, Eddy.
ON HARRY: as he restrains the impulse to follow, then does so.
JOAN: I hate living here now. I'd like to move to a small town, where it's friendly, and everybody knows each other, and there are no bars on the windows.
EDDY: And the milkman's a child molester.
JOAN: Thanks, Eddy.
EDDY: Well, it's true. It doesn't matter where you live. Shit happens.
JOAN: Are you in a bad mood or something?
EDDY: No. I'm not in a bad mood. Not as bad as yours.
EDDY: Remember when we were on tour in Japan, in '86?
JOAN: Could you be more specific?
EDDY: We had a few drinks in your room. And a certain intimacy took place.
JOAN: That was witty of me.
EDDY: But you weren't. Because an hour later, you went into Lewie's room and you didn't come out.
JOAN: Well, if you remember, I was in love with Lewis around that time, which I confided to you, so you did know.
EDDY: That's not the reason.
JOAN: Excuse me, Eddy, you just passed the turn off to my street.
EDDY: I just want to drive a little, so we can talk.
JOAN: Anyway, if I remember correctly, we only kissed. But if that led you to believe something that hurt you in any way, I apologize.
EDDY: Somebody did. Well, am I supposed to guess, or are you going to.
JOAN: Well, am I supposed to guess, or are you going to.
JOAN: Oh, Eddy.
JOAN: Why did you do these things?
EDDY: Because you deserved it.
JOAN: I didn't deserve it. I've always thought of you and treated you as one of my closest and dearest I use to think very highly of you, too, but now I don't like what I see. In fact, it's been very disturbing to me, Joan. Very disillusioning. To see that before you've even gotten rid of Lewie, you've started up with some other man.
EDDY: I use to think very highly of you, too, but now I don't like what I see. In fact, it's been very disturbing to me, Joan. Very disillusioning. To see that before you've even gotten rid of Lewie, you've started up with some other man.
JOAN: Eddy, I want you to take me home
EDDY: You know, there's so many things about me you have no idea of. You never ask me about my life or what I'm thinking, because you have no Yes I do. You can tell me whatever you want to, but let's go back down to.
JOAN: Yes I do. You can tell me whatever you want to, but let's go back down to.
EDDY: Creative things, and dreams, and feelings I have, that Lewie or anyone else in your life, are not capable of.
JOAN: You present yourself like you are, but you're not. Don't you think I know that, better than anybody?
EDDY: You present yourself like you are, but you're not. Don't you think I know that, better than anybody?
JOAN: What are you doing?
EDDY: I want you to listen to me, and I want you to kiss me. And this time, like you mean it.
HARRY: Okay, what is this! What the hell are you doing with this guy!
JOAN: Harry, look out!
HARRY: Jesus Christ.
ON VAN: She pulls open the door and addressing the dog inside, points toward Harry and Eddy:
JOAN: Duke, fasse!
JOAN: You bastards!!
VOICE: ( from above ) What are you people doing down
HARRY: Are you crazy?! What are you doing, running around with a guy like this!!
JOAN: You maniacs!! You liars!! You What are you yelling at me for?! This son of a bitch is probably the Westside Slasher!
HARRY: What are you yelling at me for?! This son of a bitch is probably the Westside Slasher!
MAN: It looks like a domestic quarrel. Let's get a car up here quick.
JOAN: I'm finished wagging my tail and leaving little puddles on the Wait a minute, honey.
HARRY: Wait a minute, honey.
JOAN: And smiling on command, because I don't give a damn whether any of you like me or not!!!
VOICE: ( from above ) Are you alright, ma'am?
HARRY: ( yelling up at the Yeah, she's alright!! I've got ( gesturing at Eddy ) The Westside Slasher, I got him!!
JOAN: He's not the Westside Slasher!!
HARRY: A friend of yours! This guy's a friend of yours?!
JOAN: None of you are friends of mine, you fucker!!
VOICE: ( from above ) Ma'am, is this guy bothering you?
HARRY: Look, you assholes! The guy was holding a knife at her throat!!
VOICE: ( from above ) Okay, put the knife down, fellow.
HARRY: What were you doing, kissing this I wasn't kissing him!!
JOAN: I wasn't kissing him!!
VOICE: ( from above ) Stand where you are, and put down the knife.
ON JOAN: Perceiving the danger to Harry:
JOAN: Put the knife down, Harry!
HARRY: ( to the copter ) Why don't you go harass someone ( from above ) We've got a bead on you, so just put it down.
HARRY: ( to the copter ) I just saved her life, you son of Give me that thing.
JOAN: Give me that thing.
JOAN: See? He's not hurting me! He's my friend!! This is just for their benefit.
VOICE: ( from above ) Don't touch her, buddy.
HARRY: But that's what I am, honey, your friend, that's what I wanted to tell you, and then I saw you with this guy.
VOICE: ( from above ) Don't worry, lady, we've got a car on the way.
JOAN: ( up into the light ) Will you please shut up and go away!! This is private! Can't you see that!?
HARRY: I just wanted to tell you, because you don't know, how important you are to me.
VOICE: ( from above ) Step away from him, ma'am.
HARRY: And I needed you to know this one other thing about me, because I don't want to withhold anything from you anymore.
JOAN: Oh God, I don't want to know, Harry. What is it?
HARRY: My real name's not Harry. It's 'Eugene.' I love that name.
JOAN: ( profoundly relieved ) ( saying it lovingly ) 'Eugene.' I love that name.
ON AUDIENCE: The CAMERA SEARCHES OUT some familiar faces and FINDS Socorro and her son-in-law, Balto. In the row behind them, Detective Melveny, and a few seats to the side of him, Vita, the waitress.
ON ANDY: restively fanning herself with a programme, seated in an aisle seat next to Moncrief.
ON CHORUS: Soloists and orchestra.
ON EUGENE: ON JOAN searching for him again and finding him, she smiles.
ON JOAN: searching for him again and finding him, she smiles.
ON EUGENE: He returns her smile. His eyes shine and glisten with emotion and an expression of undissembled and openly childlike delight takes shape upon his face. CREDITS FINISH. The SCREEN GOES BLACK. The MUSIC
THE END: Writers : Carole Eastman
