MARCO'S VOICE: Approximately sixty four hundred hours before Desert Storm, we were on a routine recon inside Iraqi-controlled terrain, assessing troop strength for what Saddam Hussein promised to be the mother of all wars . but turned out to be just a little warm up for the whomping he got a few years later.
KUWAIT, 1991: Muffled THUMP of rap music thrums from the Bradley, and low voices stray from the open doors of the Hummer.
MARCO: ( pointing ) . this way ?
LAURENT: Yes, well I see the Captain enjoys the road less travelled.
MARCO: The Captain enjoys not dragging his ass down the highway for every Tom, Dick and Qadhafi to take a whack at.
LAURENT: Well. Of course it is very bad, here. And here. And here, here, here, here
MARCO: Tricky. Swedish-made.
LAURENT: Tricky. Swedish-made.
MARCO: He refers to some satellite surveillance maps
MARCO: Nobody at Command said anything about
LAURENT: Exxon and Global Petroleum hired private contractors to do the work in '86, as part of their asset security program. Hired an Iraqi firm, in fact, who, now, well only they know where the little Nordic fuckers are planted.
MARCO: ( turns away ) Sgt. Shaw!
MARCO: ( suddenly behind him ) Rolling in two minutes.
RAYMOND: Rolling in two minutes.
MARCO: Rolling in two minutes.
RAYMOND: Yes sir. Everything okay?
MARCO: Everything okay?
RAYMOND: Yes, Captain. Everything's fine. Here. I'll "rally" the troops.
MAVOLE: Yo Melvin. You gonna play that hand, or hatch it?
RAYMOND: We're moving out.
RAYMOND: Why don't I ever ride in the Bradley with the other enlisted personnel?
MARCO: Why don't I ever ride in the Bradley with the other enlisted personnel?
RAYMOND: Why don't I ever ride in the Bradley with the other enlisted personnel?
MARCO: ( hesitates ) Maybe I enjoy your company, Sergeant.
RAYMOND: Sir, I don't want to be singled out for special treatment because of my mother's Too late for that, Shaw. As a charter member of the Lucky Sperm Club your benefits include unlimited suck-up from High-ranking Officers hoping to curry Congressional favor for their future career moves. But. If you want to ride in the Bradley, hey, I got no objections.
MARCO: Too late for that, Shaw. As a charter member of the Lucky Sperm Club your benefits include unlimited suck-up from High-ranking Officers hoping to curry Congressional favor for their future career moves. But. If you want to ride in the Bradley, hey, I got no objections.
RAYMOND: ( worried ) Trust me, sir, I don't wish to ride in the Bradley with the others, I'm just . ( beat ) The men don't care for me very much.
MARCO: No, they don't. But. On the plus side, you don't really like them, either.
RAYMOND: That's absolutely correct, Captain.
MARCO: So. See? It, you know. Balances out.
LAURENT: Marco follows Laurent's gaze out the side window
WHIP PAN: Through the driver's side window: more of the CAMEL CAVALRY tracks with them
MARCO: Camels. You gotta be kidding me.
MARCO: Take the wheel, Sergeant!
MELVIN: Quarter million dollars of U.S. Army hardware rat-fucked by a coupla used
MARCO: Shaw! Sniper with an RPG! DON'T STOP!
MARCO: Oh shit, Shaw
MARCO: ( long beat ) You don't really have time to be scared.
MARCO: I got your back, Baker. I got .
MARCO: and with complete disregard for his own life and safety, Sgt. Shaw single- handedly engaged an entire company of the
MARCO: of the enemy
MARCO: ( rote ) Sgt. Shaw repeatedly attacked from a mobile position, confounding the enemy
MARCO: and finally dividing and defeating an overwhelmingly superior force.
MARCO: Like Edmonds in Korea, Holderman in Viet Nam, Raymond Shaw was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. I signed the recommendation myself.
ANOTHER SCOUT: Were you wounded?
MARCO: I was
MARCO: injured. I fell, had a, uh, concussion lost focus Sgt. Shaw took command Did your unit sustain any casualties?
SCOUT DAD: Did your unit sustain any casualties?
MARCO: Yes. Two. Two of my people were killed.
MARCO: The Medal of Honor is the highest award to which any soldier can aspire. From the jungles of Iwo Jima to the desert of Kuwait, what these brave men I've talked about today did will never be forgotten. Since 1917, only 827 medals have been given to a total of more than 30 million Americans in arms. Only three have been awarded in the last 40 years. Who knows? Maybe someday one of you fine boys will earn one yourself in defense of this great nation.
SCOUTMASTER: Major Marco, on behalf of Troops 484 and 488 just like to thank you, for coming to talk to us, about the Medal of Honor, and your interesting experiences in the Armed Services.
MARCO: Thanks for listening. My family has claimed the Army as a trade ever since a young gunnery officer who grew up with Hernando De Soto left Spain for a look at the upper Mississippi. My life is in service to my country.
MELVIN: You ever wish it'd been you?
MARCO: Excuse me?
MELVIN: Won the medal. Been the hero.
MARCO: No, I'm just proud to have been there.
MELVIN: Major Marco.
MELVIN: It's Al Melvin, Sir. Corporal Melvin. From your unit. Desert Storm.
MARCO: Melvin. Jesus how are you
MELVIN: ( intense ) I have these dreams, Major.
MARCO: 8/18/03 11.
MELVIN: Yeah. Kuwait. You and me. Mavole, and Baker. Raymond Shaw. See, I remember it happened the way you just said. And then I don't.
MARCO: Well, we had a pretty rough time over there, Al, it was hairy, and it was a long time ago, now. Memories shift.
MELVIN: Do you have dreams, sir?
MARCO: Everybody has dreams, Corporal
MELVIN: Not these.
MARCO: No I don't.
MELVIN: It's bad, sir. It's making me crazy. I write it down, every night, after I wake up, I try to get it all it doesn't always go together all of what I can remember, and
MARCO: ( gentle ) Al, you know, maybe you should be going to the VA and talking to a doctor, I mean if these dreams are really
MELVIN: I've been to doctors!
MELVIN: I'm so stuck, sir. I mean I remember Shaw saving us, but it does not make sense it should have been you. And Shaw, he
MARCO: Well, that's it's over and done. We've got to move on
MELVIN: I can't get my hand around it. I thought maybe, if you had the dreams .
MARCO: ( shaken ) You need money ?
MELVIN: No. No sir.
MARCO: Marco already digging for a crumpled twenty. Melvin waves it off, backing away, suddenly pissed.
MELVIN: I don't need your money.
MARCO: Okay. Okay. Well, look, Al, I gotta
MELVIN: run, yeah. But. It was great seeing you. And good luck to you.
MARCO: run, yeah. But. It was great seeing you. And good luck to you.
WOMAN: Thirty seven.
WOMAN: From the landing. Every week it gets longer. I'm worried about you.
MARCO: From the landing. Every week it gets longer. I'm worried about you.
MARCO: None of these involve slave traders or sheiks, Abby. I checked.
WOMAN: ( blushes ) What do I owe you?
MARCO: ( sad ) A smile.
ROVING REPORTER: with public anxiety rekindled by the events of Bloody Friday, with the war on terror marching into yet another year, no end in sight
MARCO: Yawns his eyelids flutter he shudders awake, digs in his grocery bag for the No Doz and shakes out half a dozen. Which he swallows dry.
ROVING REPORTER: the American people are looking for a new agenda but because this party remains deeply divided on so many issues, the choice of a vice presidential nominee may be the key unifying factor for the delegates of this convention in much the way Johnson helped Kennedy in 1960 .
JORDAN: no, the real danger is from suspending civil liberties, gutting the Bill of Rights, allowing our fear to destroy our democratic ideals
RAYMOND: ( murmurs ) . I am not a professional politician. I am not a professional politician .
RAYMOND: . I am . a professional politician.
ELLIE: Raymond? Darling, what were you going to do, make me stand out there like room
ELLIE: I asked downstairs and Miss Freeman, your 'wrangler' helpful Ms. Freeman said you were up here practicing your speech. Honestly, I don't understand why you insist upon isolating yourself, people adore you, Raymond, they crave your company and yet here you are, holed up, as if you were some kind of emotionally challenged individual like your father instead of Raymond Prentiss Shaw, a handsome, intelligent, people-loving war hero with a great deal to offer to his party and his country.
RAYMOND: No what? Baby, I haven't even asked you a question. Your hair is too flat. And that tie. The tie is wrong.
ELLIE: No what? Baby, I haven't even asked you a question. Your hair is too flat. And that tie. The tie is wrong.
RAYMOND: No to the question you're going to ask. No to all the questions you pretend to want to ask
ELLIE: ( the tie ) Something a little less busy.
RAYMOND: and no you may not engage in your usual back-door political thuggery to shovel me onto the presidential ticket.
ELLIE: Oh. You're not interested? I thought you were. Did I miss my cue?
RAYMOND: Of course I'm interested I wouldn't be here if I wasn't but not if it means attacking the reputation of a statesman like Thomas Jordan, which I'm sure was your plan. Let democracy run its course, mother. Let the people decide.
RAYMOND: I'm sorry, for a second there I thought it was your father speaking that dreaded Shaw blood rising and the stink of defeat made me nauseous.
ELLIE: I'm sorry, for a second there I thought it was your father speaking that dreaded Shaw blood rising and the stink of defeat made me nauseous.
RAYMOND: And excuse me, when have I ever attacked the honorable Mr. Jordan, despite the shameful way his daughter misled you that summer at the shore.
ELLIE: And excuse me, when have I ever attacked the honorable Mr. Jordan, despite the shameful way his daughter misled you that summer at the shore.
RAYMOND: Mother, you chased her away
ELLIE: If that's how you want to remember it.
RAYMOND: you ruined everything.
ELLIE: Honey, you're oversimplifying things somewhat but, yes, okay I promise, promise I will stay out of it. You have my word.
ELLIE: After all, you're young and you have plenty of party conventions ahead of you in which to discover, as your father did, that democracy is an elusive and imperfect science, and the meek do not happily inherit the earth, but simply get eaten by the alpha dogs, chewed up, digested and deposited on the carefully mown parkways of American politics.
RAYMOND: I'm wearing the one I have on.
CROWD ROARS: 47 CONVENTION CENTER CORRIDOR, BACK STAGE - CONTINUOUS 47
ELLIE: That was the inference.
GILLESPIE: That was the inference.
ELLIE: They should be down on their fat white knees thanking me for saving this party from committing political seppuku.
CONGRESSMAN HEALY: You gave them every opportunity to do the right thing, Senator.
ELLIE: ( glances at him ) No. I gave them one opportunity. And that was unusually generous of me.
UTLY: The decision is final, Senator. Tom Jordan is on the ticket. We don't need your blessing, but we'd like it.
ELLIE: ( smiling: ) Before we get started, I'm dying to know: which genius here hatched the scheme of pairing a Sound Bite from Nebraska with a relic who thinks keeping suicide bombers off our busses is unconstitutional?
UTLY: All the research indicates that an Arthur- Jordan ticket sits quite well with the American public and
ELLIE: 'Sits quite well' translates into how many votes?
SENATOR WELLS: Your son is largely unknown outside of New York. His public service, his Congressional record, while commendable, My son is a war hero.
ELLIE: My son is a war hero.
CONGRESSMAN FLORES: ( cheerful ) Governor Arthur has agreed to consider Raymond for a cabinet post.
ELLIE: We didn't come here to have a discussion.
SENATOR WELLS: Ellie, you don't have the votes to block this, or even push the nomination to a second ballot.
ELLIE: ( ignores him ) Even running against this cut-and-fold vice president, with his party's record of abysmal failure at home and abroad, Arthur is still unelectable without help. ( cold, hard logic: ) Consider. The Governor is a corn-belt candidate who scratch and sniff looks and smells alot like the kind of liberal-labor-intellectual Dukakis was, but without, thank God, the helmet. ( beat ) Assume our intrepid Arthur can carry the Northeast, plus his home ground, and California. We're still dead in the South, and Southwest, where they win by landslides. The mid-central is a toss- up. Tom Jordan actually becomes a liability in Florida because of his Castro-appeasement profile, and in the Carolinas, where he fumbles the military vote over his "terrorism isn't a war it's a social disease" nonsense.
ELLIE: You know this. Your own polls and surveys back me up. You're counting on Jordan to help you get the black vote, women, college kids my gut instinct says he won't and Arthur holding the center where he's soft at best. And who's to say the President won't throw troops into another third- world skirmish, pushing his sidekick's approval ratings up into the eighties again, and the campaign off the front
UTLY: We're confident this is a winning ticket, What's your margin of error? Five points? Three? I can swing that, and you know it. I can swing seven away from you more than enough to split the party and
ELLIE: What's your margin of error? Five points? Three? I can swing that, and you know it. I can swing seven away from you more than enough to split the party and
SENATOR WELLS: ( over her ) and deny us the White House for four more years? No. Not even you would do that, Senator. You're bluffing.
ELLIE: America is facing the greatest test of its history, gentlemen. Not just from terrorist organizations both outside and within our borders, but from covert alliances of disaffected nations so terrified of winding up on our shit list they believe the only way to protect themselves is to hit us with everything they can find before we get around to them. Am I the only one in this room paying attention to the NSA reports? We are on the brink of nuclear cataclysm, on our own soil, while our policies remain shackled by Jordan-style One Worlders who insist that human beings are essentially Good . and that Power is something shameful, and Evil. Make no mistake, the people of this great country are frightened. They know what's coming. They can feel it. And we can shovel them the same old shit and call it sugar, or arm them, with a young, vibrant, populist congressman, a war hero with heart forged by enemy fire, in the desert, in the dark, when American lives hung in the balance.
REPORTER #1: ( from the convention floor ) like a long shot catching the favorite on the back stretch of the Derby .
MEDIA ICON: Raymond Shaw bears the lineage of the fabled Prentiss family dynasty grandson of legendary industrialist and diplomat Tyler Prentiss, son of controversial Senator Eleanor Prentiss Shaw, who took over the seat vacated by her husband, the esteemed John Shaw, when he died tragically over twenty years ago.
MEDIA ICON: For many, Raymond Prentiss Shaw is an enigma: millionaire Harvard honors student who enlists in the military
MEDIA ICON: refusing the officer's commission to which he was entitled. The Medal of Honor winner beloved by the men of the 'Lost Patrol' he saved from an enemy ambush, and then guided back across the open desert to safety
MEDIA ICON: The war hero who dedicated himself to public service after Desert Storm .
MEDIA ICON: . the revolutionary science of bio- genetics, which has, literally
WOMAN'S VOICE: transformed the common garden tomato, through genome-level intervention, from that fragile, fickle, vulnerable fruit one must struggle to simply nurture to
WOMAN'S VOICE: into a resilient, dependable, categorically superior individual in every conceivable way
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: strappingly resistant to parasite, disease, over-ripening and systemic failure while, at the same time, fiercely heat and water tolerant
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: yet note the complexity of the frontal lobe nevertheless retaining a sweet, juicy plumpness reminiscent of the finest English Beefsteak or Italian Plum.
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: Those of you with ties to the Intelligence community may recall the CIA's misguided MK-ULTRA program, the KGB's Novichok research, and similar half- assed ventures in Great Britain and China under the lay term of 'mind control.'
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: Street-corner schizophrenics with tin foil on their heads offer sad proof of the failure of those endeavors.
NOYLE: when you're rescued and returned with your patrol to command headquarters, what will be among the first duties you will
MARCO: I'll recommend Sergeant Shaw for the Medal of Honor, ma'am. He saved our lives, terminated the enemy and led us across the desert to safety.
NOYLE: Yes. Brilliant. But there were There are always casualties, ma'am.
MARCO: There are always casualties, ma'am.
NOYLE: Here, then, are ten subject soldiers in a clinically-induced functional fugue state. Hyperdelusional that they've been bivouacked in a small caravansary to wait out a sandstorm.
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: ( smiles ) A simple Pavlovian parlor trick.
NOYLE: Our Candidate's course of treatment will, of course, involve considerably more sophisticated intervention over a sustained time period, to ensure that a stable mechanism is irrevocably in place. We employ a kind of neurocellular conversion. Psychological abreaction through genomic repurposing. "But Dr. Noyle, all the literature all the literature says you cannot make an individual act against his deepest moral nature or his own self interest." Hmmm. Let's see. Sgt. Shaw. Ever killed anyone?
RAYMOND: No ma'am.
NOYLE: Not even in combat?
RAYMOND: No ma'am.
NOYLE: Brilliant. Casualty time.
RAYMOND: Raymond. Suffocate Private Mavole. Whoawhoa wait wait a sec And at the instant he completes this, or any task, Raymond has already forgotten that he has ever been involved in it.
MARCO: Raymond. Suffocate Private Mavole. Whoawhoa wait wait a sec And at the instant he completes this, or any task, Raymond has already forgotten that he has ever been involved in it.
NOYLE: Raymond. Suffocate Private Mavole. Whoawhoa wait wait a sec And at the instant he completes this, or any task, Raymond has already forgotten that he has ever been involved in it.
MAVOLE: Whoawhoa wait wait a sec And at the instant he completes this, or any task, Raymond has already forgotten that he has ever been involved in it.
MARCO: The meds make me . spongy. I float. I'm not sharp
MARCO: When I sleep, I dream. I don't want to dream, sir.
MARCO: Dreams like mine.
MARCO: I'm not jealous of Raymond Shaw, sir.
MARCO: I felt . fine. No big deal.
MARCO: ( almost angry ) Glad for him. He deserves it. Raymond Shaw is probably the kindest, bravest, MARCO LT. COL. HOWARD
MARCO: No sir. I wouldn't do that, sir.
MARCO: It sucks, sir. I want to get back to Then for God's sake, Ben, go back on your meds. And stay on them, this time. Get some sleep. I'll see you in two weeks.
MARCO: Yes sir. Same time, same station.
GENERAL SLOAN: No offense, Major, but it chaps my ass we gotta have a babysitter.
MARCO: Sir, I'm just here to keep you from getting into fist-fights with the Navy
GENERAL WILSON: this Army of Two's gonna do some recon on the no host bar.
MARCO: Right behind you, sirs.
ELLIE: billions of dollars, thousands of troops, sacrificed on behalf of a disastrous foreign policy which has only served to galvanize our enemies
GENERAL WILSON: They oughta put up a crossing guard.
GENERAL SLOAN: Or rig her with an air horn.
WITH RAYMOND: distractedly staring at a pretty young woman ( JOCELYN JORDAN ) near the entrance.
RAYMOND: ( to the bankers and wives ) I mean that's supposed to be the whole point of this great country, isn't it? That everybody matters. Not just the people at this party no offense but the people who can't afford to be here.
ELLIE: ( arriving: ) ( to the couples ) sorry to interrupt
ELLIE: You must learn not to let yourself get cornered by the bottom-feeders.
RAYMOND: Including you?
ELLIE: I devour everything in my path, darling, top or bottom, you know that.
ELLIE: Hello Mark.
WHITING: Eleanor! Congratulations, Raymond. Your grandad would be so goddamn proud of you.
RAYMOND: Nice to see you Mark. Thanks.
ELLIE: Raymond, this is J.B. Johnston, from Manchurian Global
RAYMOND: Yes, hi
ELLIE: and David Donovan, their Managing and co-chair of the U.S. International Policy Caucus.
RAYMOND: and co-chair of the U.S. International Policy Caucus.
RAYMOND: Go away, mother. You've earned your fee.
ELLIE: The plucky idealist.
RAYMOND: Gentlemen, how's business?
WHITING: Good, Raymond. Business is good.
JOHNSTON: Could always be better.
RAYMOND: Careful. Any better, you'll be a There's the challenge. Maximizing the market share and potential of a company.
DONOVAN: There's the challenge. Maximizing the market share and potential of a company.
WHITING: Or a country.
GENERAL SLOAN: Bullshit. You guys are sea chum, ripe for some raghead with a rocket launcher to put a hole in your bucket.
MARCO: ( low ) If you can't behave yourselves, Generals, we're gonna spend the rest of the day watching the Orioles game back at the
MARCO: Congressman Sergeant Shaw
MARCO: Ben Marco.
RAYMOND: I know. Hello Captain.
MARCO: Marco frowns, watches Raymond weave through the crowd towards Jocie, at the entrance. Marco follows, passing:
JORDAN: the political extortion you committed in order to destroy my vice presidential bid so that
ELLIE: so that you might vicariously bask in reflected limelight from your son
JORDAN: so that you might vicariously bask in reflected limelight from your son
ELLIE: ( overlapping ) Tom, please, just because the party felt a younger, more dynamic man could help the ticket, I don't think it's fair for you to single me out and
JORDAN: You know, I have such contempt for you, Eleanor, that when I think of you, I actually fear for this country. Raymond is nothing. A riddle. A wild card at worst. But you, you are the smiler who wraps her dagger in the cloak of the flag and waits for her chance to strike. Which I pray will never come.
JOCELYN: . but Raymond, my God, it's been so many years I've been married and I've changed too.
RAYMOND: I've changed too.
JOCELYN: That's not what I but, yes, it's great, really I see that you have But my feelings haven't. Changed, I mean .
RAYMOND: But my feelings haven't. Changed, I mean .
RAYMOND: . I guess I've never stopped feeling wondering how it might have turned out, you know, between us, if
JOCELYN: ( overlapping ) Raymond people can't rewrite their Jocie, I haven't even been with another girl since we . stopped seeing each other doesn't that say something to That you must be just about the loneliest person on earth, and it breaks my heart.
RAYMOND: Jocie, I haven't even been with another girl since we . stopped seeing each other doesn't that say something to That you must be just about the loneliest person on earth, and it breaks my heart.
JOCELYN: That you must be just about the loneliest person on earth, and it breaks my heart.
JOCELYN: I've got to go good luck with the
RAYMOND: Marco slides in front of him with a disarming grin.
MARCO: I want to talk to you too.
RAYMOND: Not now.
MARCO: I know you're busy I just have to ask you
MARCO: I saw Al Melvin the other day remember Corporal Melvin?
RAYMOND: Don't touch me.
MARCO: Okay sorry but Melvin, he's extremely disturbed about what happened to us, on the recon patrol, back in Don't ever touch me.
RAYMOND: Don't ever touch me.
MARCO: Raymond's secret service agent, ANDERSON slips himself between him, smiling politely, easing Marco away:
ANDERSON: Tried the Pad Thai, Major? I'm told it
COLONEL GARRET: What were you hoping he'd say?
MARCO: I don't know, sir. It isn't so much what he said, or didn't say but his demeanor, his attitude. Sir, I overheard an exchange he
COLONEL GARRET: ( talks over this ) I think you hoped Congressman Shaw would say, "yes, Major, I've had those same dreams. Tomatoes and sandstorms. You're not nuts, there's some crazy shit going down here."
COLONEL GARRET: Major, we've been down this road with you before, yes?
MARCO: No, sir, not this road, sir. But I hear what you're saying, and I want to do this through the proper channels.
MARCO: Lt. Colonel Howard with respect I've had a dozen years of experts telling me I've got Gulf War Syndrome, or a stress disorder. Twelve years being a good soldier, denying what every nerve ending in my body tells me is more real than not. One dream, over and over. Not variations on a dream, the same one, night after night after night
MARCO: No sir. Something happened to us, in the desert, ten years ago. Not what we thought it was. And it happened on my Have you contacted any other members of the unit besides Shaw and Melvin? Asked them about the dreams?
COLONEL GARRET: Have you contacted any other members of the unit besides Shaw and Melvin? Asked them about the dreams?
MARCO: ( from notes he's made ) Owens died of cancer in '97. Villalobos, a car crash. Atkins committed suicide. Jamison was at the Pentagon, 9-11, body never recovered. Wilson I'm still trying to track down.
MARCO: Sir, I know I can't ask you to talk to Congressman Shaw, not yet, but Al Melvin, it's a phone call, a quick q&a look at his notebooks, hear what he's been dreaming and either he will support the credibility of what I'm saying, or he won't. And I'll shut up.
COLONEL GARRET: And what is it you are saying, exactly, Major? That you misrepresented falsified what happened In Kuwait? About the Medal of Honor? In effect, committed perjury.
MARCO: If you just talk to Melvin
COLONEL GARRET: ( ignores ) No, no, I'm sorry you're saying an entire squad of U.S. Army soldiers was hypnotized into believing that Raymond Shaw deserved the Medal of Honor. And somehow you're the only one who knows the
COLONEL GARRET: Major Marco. You will stay clear of Congressman Shaw.
MARCO: Yes sir.
MARCO: Yes sir.
COLONEL GARRET: Major, do you ever take a step back and consider why you've remained at rank for all these years? Missed Bosnia, Afghanistan, Iraqi Freedom. While men of lesser promise and inferior talent have enjoyed the fruits of those campaigns and moved beyond you?
MARCO: Every day, sir.
T.V. MODERATOR: Congressman Shaw your rebuttal?
MARCO: ( on the phone ) Hello, Victor? Marco. How's it goin'? ( listens ) Public affairs sucks, my friend. I miss you guys. Listen, favor: guy from my old unit, Melvin, Alfred R. I need an
MARCO: ( on the phone ) Yeah, yeah. I'm here .
DESK CLERK: ( about Raymond ) Dontcha love this guy?
MARCO: Al? Al Melvin, it's Marco .
RAYMOND: . The enemy is among us. The wolf is at the door . the fox is in the henhouse . the weasel is . the weasel is .
RAYMOND: The weasel is a weasel. Frog and Toad Are Friends.
ANDERSON: Sir, we'll be right outside.
RAYMOND: I know. Good night.
RAYMOND: You have thirty seconds, Mother.
ELLIE: Am I this predictable?
RAYMOND: You have no idea.
ELLIE: I'm calling to compliment you, Mr. Grumpy. I thought you were magnificent tonight. So do all the network campaign experts. "Presidential" was a word they
ELLIE: This compassionate vigilance thing is working quite well for you. I might have to convert.
RAYMOND: I happen to believe in it.
ELLIE: Of course you do. Now Raymond
RAYMOND: Goodnight, Mother.
ELLIE: Raymond punches a button and puts his mother on HOLD.
ELLIE: 77 INT. RAYMOND'S HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT 77
THE PHONE: Mom on hold, flashing red light. The second call, light punches the line, lifts the receiver
RAYMOND: punches the line, lifts the receiver
RAYMOND: VOICE ON THE PHONE ( British accent )
RAYMOND: ( irritably ) Who is this?
RAYMOND: Yes .?
RAYMOND: ( eyes alight )
THE PHONE: light flashing, Eleanor on HOLD stops
NOYLE: Hello Raymond. Do you remember me?
RAYMOND: No sir.
NOYLE: ( to his group ) We have twenty minutes for our little check up from the neck up.
MARCO: My God. I'm sorry to hear that. When did it . Yeah, I know. I know. Listen, Mrs. Wilson can you tell me if Nathan was ever preoccupied with his experience in Kuwait? Did he ever mention dreams or nightmares . about what happened . the firefight, afterward . uh-huh. Sure. No, I understand. Thank you for
NOYLE: No decay, no slippage. Everything appears to be in flawless working Raymond can you remember the deaths of Mavole and Baker?
RAYMOND: The LCD SCREENS show activity in areas of Raymond's brain.
NOYLE: Describe it.
MARCO: . Al? You in there?
AMERICAN FLAGS: in the margins, many attempts to capture likenesses of DR. NOYLE AND THE MYSTERIOUS ARABIC WOMAN, repeatedly crossed out, never right.
THE TEAM: ( reciting together: ) instantly before Sergeant Shaw is able to locate and eliminate the source of the ordnance .
TAPED VOICE: ( distant, foreign, precise: ) . locate and eliminate the source of
MARCO: topples the chair as he stands up and then:
LAURENT TOKAR: sitting down across from him. Smiling.
LAURENT: ( French accent ) Is this seat taken?
SKIP: 94 INT. BULLET TRAIN TO NEW YORK - DAY 94
MARCO: This is Delaware.
ROSIE: I know. But, Maryland, it's a beautiful state anyway.
ROSIE: Paper or plastic.
MARCO: From the grocery store. You were wondering where, we, you know and right at the check-out stand, "paper or plastic," that's me. I see you all the time. Bennett Marco. Checks from the First National Bank, and you always put your spare change into the March of Dimes Romance novels, instant noodles, No-Doz and tomatoes. Anyway, I'm on vacation, holiday in the City and so forth, I saw you sitting here . I thought, okay, girl it's now or You headed to New York City?
ROSIE: From the grocery store. You were wondering where, we, you know and right at the check-out stand, "paper or plastic," that's me. I see you all the time. Bennett Marco. Checks from the First National Bank, and you always put your spare change into the March of Dimes Romance novels, instant noodles, No-Doz and tomatoes. Anyway, I'm on vacation, holiday in the City and so forth, I saw you sitting here . I thought, okay, girl it's now or You headed to New York City?
ROSIE: You headed to New York City?
MARCO: No. Guy I knew . in the Army. He's in politics now. We've kinda lost touch. What's your name?
ROSIE: No. Guy I knew . in the Army. He's in politics now. We've kinda lost touch. What's your name?
MARCO: No. Guy I knew . in the Army. He's in politics now. We've kinda lost touch. What's your name?
ROSIE: 'Scuse me?
MARCO: 'Scuse me?
ROSIE: Yeah. Crazy French pronunciation and It's pretty.
MARCO: It's pretty.
ROSIE: I guess your friends call you Jenny.
MARCO: I guess your friends call you Jenny.
ROSIE: Not yet they haven't, thank God. But you can call me Jenny.
MARCO: What do your friends call you?
ROSIE: Rosie. My full name is Eugenie Rose. I've always liked the Rosie part better. Eugenie is, well, fragile.
MARCO: Still. When I asked you your name, you said it was Eugenie.
ROSIE: Yeah. Well. Maybe 'cause I was feeling fragile. At the time.
MARCO: Excuse me.
MARCO: OW dammit
ROSIE: sinks down next to him. Calm. Deftly plucking the pills from the floor.
ROSIE: My mother would tell you to wash these.
ROSIE: I didn't mean to upset you.
MARCO: It's not you, it's me. I'm not my nothing's . I wish I smoked.
ROSIE: It's way overrated.
MARCO: Rosie, I'm gonna go in here, wash my face, take my pill, and get myself
NOYLE: Hello Captain. Do you remember me?
MARCO: . Yeah.
ROSIE: Jesus. You've been in here twenty minutes. I thought you'd fallen off.
ROSIE: I'm gonna get a cab, you want me to drop you somewhere?
MARCO: No. I'm okay, thanks.
ROSIE: Your friend gonna meet you here?
MARCO: El Dorado 59970. My cell phone, in case you you know. I like to say it the old way can you remember the number, or should I write it on your chest with a sharpie?
ROSIE: El Dorado 59970. My cell phone, in case you you know. I like to say it the old way can you remember the number, or should I write it on your chest with a sharpie?
MARCO: ( small smile ) I'll remember. You're sweating.
ROSIE: You're sweating.
MARCO: Marco feels his shirt soaked. Long beat. She reaches out and feels his forehead. No fever. Sizing him up.
ROSIE: Listen. You got a place to go and get freshened up?
ROSIE: It's my cousin's apartment. She's in Cleveland with the road company of 'Mamma Mia.' There's . a view of the park . if you go out on the fire escape and kinda . tilt your head .
ROSIE: I'm nervous. I'm sorry. I yak when I get nervous.
MARCO: Me, I get quiet.
ROSIE: You okay?
MARCO: Dreams, I've been having these
ROSIE: Is that what happened on the train?
MARCO: Sort of. I could be dreaming you.
MARCO: I could be dreaming you.
ROSIE: What if you are?
MARCO: You'd be the best dream I've had in a long time, Rosie.
ROSIE: If that's a line, Ben Marco, it kinda
ROSIE'S VOICE: ( distant )
ROSIE: Earth to Ben how're you doing in
ROSIE: Ben, I need you to open this door. Okay? Just for a sec. You're scaring me. Ben ?
ROSIE: BEN MARCO!?
BEN MARCO!?: PUSH IN as Ben presses the blade sharply down into his skin . cutting a slit through which the blunt edge of
ROSIE: Oh Jesus.
MARCO: loses his grip on the oblong thing before he can even get a good look at it, and it goes into the sink
MARCO: SHIT. Oh no NO .
DIVES TO: FLOOR LEVEL - UNDER THE SINK where he puts both hands on the fittings of the u-joint trap and struggles to get them loose succeeding finally, water spewing everywhere the trap falls to the floor, disgorging soap chips, slimy hairballs and pipe corrosion and water . but not the thing he wants. It's
MARCO: Gone. Shit.
MARCO: Tell me you saw that.
MARCO: ( hollow ) You didn't. You didn't see it.
ROSIE: See what?
MARCO: 8/18/03 58.
ROSIE: Of what?
MARCO: My sanity.
MARCO: This wasn't a delusion.
DELP: That's what they all say, Marco. Some wicked shit got sprayed on you guys during Desert Storm. Besides all the depleted uranium, I mean .
DELP: . I personally know of a coupla Rangers who swear that they see only in tertiary colors now
MARCO: and can pick up sports talk radio in their cortical block if they get too close to a Con-Ed transformer.
DELP: and can pick up sports talk radio in their cortical block if they get too close to a Con-Ed transformer.
MARCO: Delp. It's not GWS. A dozen years ago, the Army did this tiny implantable I.D. thing you could imbed it under the skin, then scan it like a bar code for medical emergency information, blood-type, DNA. Pentagon ordered up half a million, and stuck about five thousand experimentally into high-risk soldiers and infantry. But the scanners proved skittish and field hospitals hated 'em, so the whole deal got eighty-sixed and forgotten.
DELP: A dozen years ago, the Army did this tiny implantable I.D. thing you could imbed it under the skin, then scan it like a bar code for medical emergency information, blood-type, DNA. Pentagon ordered up half a million, and stuck about five thousand experimentally into high-risk soldiers and infantry. But the scanners proved skittish and field hospitals hated 'em, so the whole deal got eighty-sixed and forgotten.
MARCO: The Army never put one in me.
DELP: That you know of, man. That you know of. How'd you find me?
DELP: Ha ha.
DELP: You seriously believe somebody's messed with your mother board.
MARCO: What are you studying here, Delp?
DELP: For the Agency?
MARCO: For the Agency?
DELP: Nah, CIA cut me loose in '97 during the Macedonian debacle. Now I got this little grant from Wal-Mart.
MARCO: Look, Delp. My experiences during the war, in Kuwait . feel dreamlike to me. And my dreams? About what happened? Feel as real as you and me, here, right
MARCO: It's like . I feel like somewhere along the line, I've been . brainwashed. Or something. You know? All scrambled up.
DELP: We've all been brainwashed, Marco. Religion, advertising, television. Politics. We accept what's normal because we're told it's normal and we crave normalcy. Hell, look at the Germans under Hitler. Disco, in the And if you're really worried about somebody imbedding electric probes and computer chips in your brain to make you do things it's horseshit, man. Turns out Pavlov had it right from the getgo. Dogs and all. A little ECT and sleep deprivation will do the trick for a fraction of the price. Ask the Uzbeks. And you would remember it.
MARCO: What about my dreams?
DELP: ( shrugs ) What if all this is the fucking dream and you're still back in Kuwait?
MARCO: You're not helping me.
DELP: I am. You're not helping yourself. Reality is consensual, man. You just gotta prove it up. Or play it out.
REPORTER #2: Congressman Shaw! Why do you and Gov. Arthur oppose deploying troops in We can't clean up the world with dirty
RAYMOND: We can't clean up the world with dirty
RAYMOND: Guys, I gave up a long time ago trying to second guess my mother. I'm just surprised the rest of you haven't.
MARCO: Do you ever dream about Kuwait?
RAYMOND: I can never remember my dreams.
RAYMOND: it's okay. I know him, it's okay.
RAYMOND: I saw Mavole's Mom and Dad in St. Louis. I still visit them and Baker's mom when I can. Do you keep up with anybody from the unit besides Al Melvin?
MARCO: I don't keep up with Al Melvin. He found Why did you ask me about Kuwait?
RAYMOND: Why did you ask me about Kuwait?
MARCO: ( pleasantly: ) I didn't. I asked you about your dreams. At the fundraiser why did you say you needed to talk to me?
MIRELLA: ( covers the phone ) Mr. Shaw, excuse me they want to know if you'll do an interview with Larry King at six.
RAYMOND: ( to Marco ) What do you want from me, Captain?
MARCO: Major. Forty minutes of your time.
MIRELLA: No to the interview, or no to six?
RAYMOND: He wants to talk about my mother. No.
MARCO: Private time.
RAYMOND: Well, we've got about five minutes, right now. And this is as private as it gets for me anymore, so .
MARCO: There are these dreams that . some of the men in our unit have been having.
RAYMOND: Including you?
MARCO: It's a question of what actually happened the night our patrol was attacked
RAYMOND: That's easy. RPG incoming. Mortar fire, we're ambushed. Total chaos. I can't locate Baker or Mavole. You're knocked unconscious I find you and pull you to safety and then
MARCO: ( cuts him off ) Yeah, that's how I remember it, too. ( beat ) But I dream something else.
RAYMOND: Am I in your dreams?
MARCO: Doing what?
RAYMOND: Doing what?
MARCO: ( evasive ) You know.
RAYMOND: Saving everybody?
MARCO: It's more complicated than that. People just don't have the same dreams Melvin made drawings, he wrote down what he dreamed, this is one of his notebooks it's all in here.
MARCO: People just don't have the same dreams Melvin made drawings, he wrote down what he dreamed, this is one of his notebooks it's all in here.
RAYMOND: I don't have dreams, Captain. Maybe you should . see somebody talk to somebody who specializes in this kind of thing
MARCO: I've been to doctors.
MARCO: Okay. Okay, I'm sorry.
MARCO: I'm not crazy, Shaw.
RAYMOND: ( calls after ) ( then ) ( then )
RAYMOND: Are you hungry?
RAYMOND: I kill Mavole?
MARCO: It's a dream
RAYMOND: could mean something else.
MARCO: could mean something else.
RAYMOND: could be I'm just supposed to think you did.
MARCO: could be I'm just supposed to think you did.
RAYMOND: I killed the enemy. I didn't know them, either. So it was okay. And, anyway, I remember what we did in Kuwait, I remember it perfectly. But now that you mention it, I don't remember doing it . exactly.
MARCO: Maybe you didn't.
RAYMOND: NO. What a thought.
RAYMOND: Life is so bizarre, isn't it? This absurd campaign, the sordid world of politics, my whole public life and persona sometimes, occasionally, for an instant, the fog clears and I look and I think, what am I doing? I mean, what the fuck am I doing? Posing and grinning like a goddamn sock puppet, shaking hands with total strangers who must be blind if
RAYMOND: A Prentiss. Ferociously, a Prentiss but not a Shaw, God forbid I was molded by cold hard hands, every detail of my existence preordained. Can you even imagine, Ben, how it would feel never to have a say in what your life would be? I was twenty years old before I had a friend no, worse, a girlfriend well, almost but, yes, a friend, or I thought so outside my mother's circle of approved encounters and it didn't she wouldn't precipitating my one act of rebellion, storming off and in the Army. Which, ironically, only served ultimately to pad my gilded Prentiss resume. You know: "fluent in five languages, Phi Beta Kappa, Congressional Medal of Honor, blah blah And after the war I came back to her. And the family legacy. This. Mother calls it, "fulfilling my Manifest Prentiss Destiny."
MARCO: Why did you come back, Raymond? What
RAYMOND: Seeming startled, Raymond's reverie is broken. His eyes harden as he refocuses on Marco.
RAYMOND: Weren't you listening? Mother happened. You know, the truth is, I hate it. I've always despised it.
MARCO: ( lost ) The medal. The cloying adulation of the little people. Your pitiful jealousy
RAYMOND: The medal. The cloying adulation of the little people. Your pitiful jealousy
MARCO: Who said I was jealous?
RAYMOND: I don't have the dreams, Ben.
MARCO: How can you not remember saving the unit?
RAYMOND: I do. I said I did.
MARCO: You said you don't remember doing it.
RAYMOND: Ha ha, don't mix me up, I'm tired, and Fine. It's like this. It's as if I know what will happen, Ben, but I never get to the part where I feel that it actually did happen. But I think that's probably perfectly normal.
MARCO: Did you ever talk to anybody about this little discrepancy?
RAYMOND: What? No. Who would I ask? My old Army "buddies," who love and adore me for saving their pathetically unimportant present company excluded asses?
MARCO: No. You ask Army Intelligence. Look, we can go together, tomorrow. You tell them what you just told me, everything you do remember, what you don't "exactly" remember, about Kuwait, let 'em run some tests on you
RAYMOND: I'm sure the press would have a field day with that.
MARCO: Raymond. They put an implant in me. I found it yesterday. Maybe they put one in you.
RAYMOND: ( horrified ) Nobody's put anything in me.
MARCO: Great. Let's prove it. We can go get an x-ray we can check it right now
RAYMOND: I want to be supportive of you, Ben, I do, but
MARCO: Just check your back, Raymond
RAYMOND: this can wait until after the What are you afraid of? See if there's a You should leave. This is not, this is just check
MARCO: What are you afraid of? See if there's a You should leave. This is not, this is just check
RAYMOND: You should leave. This is not, this is just check
MARCO: just check
RAYMOND: ( without checking ) There's nothing there!
MARCO: Somebody was in your head, with big steel- toe boots, a couple of cable cutters and a chainsaw, and they went to town! Neurons got wasted, circuits rewired, brain cells obliterated
MARCO: you don't even know what they did! You don't you can't CONCEIVE what they did to you and you're worried about some lame-ass reporters!?
MARCO: If I'm wrong they can put me the fuck are you okay?
RAYMOND: there there's something
MARCO: there there's something
ANDERSON: ( disbelief ) He bit him. ( at Raymond ) Sir, did he bite you?
RAYMOND: MARCO shoved to the floor twisted handcuffed blood SMEARING across the carpet his eyes wild with adrenaline and fear RAYMOND his hand goes to his back his eyes LOCK with Marco's for an instant then Marco is hustled out the Horrified campaign workers crane necks to see inside. Mute with shock, Raymond pulls his hand away from his back. Hides the blood.
ANDERSON: NOTHING HAPPENED!
RAYMOND: NOTHING HAPPENED!
NOTHING HAPPENED!: Horrified campaign workers crane necks to see inside. Mute with shock, Raymond pulls his hand away from his back. Hides the blood.
RAYMOND: No. That'd be political suicide. Of course not. I want you to help him.
ELLIE: I can't even imagine why.
RAYMOND: Because I feel sorry for him. Because I said I would.
ELLIE: What should we do? Make him a General?
RAYMOND: Mother. Look. My campaign people are getting a restraining order, he's going on all the security watch-lists but I won't lock him up. I'm not pressing It's complicated I don't know. It's just complicated and I don't want to talk about it, I want to get back to the campaign and focus on
ELLIE: It's complicated I don't know. It's just complicated and I don't want to talk about it, I want to get back to the campaign and focus on
RAYMOND: It's complicated I don't know. It's just complicated and I don't want to talk about it, I want to get back to the campaign and focus on
ELLIE: You don't actually believe his story?
RAYMOND: No. But he does. And he's a fine soldier and . my friend. And if his slim hold on sanity requires that I tolerate his delusions until he can get help, I'll do it. It doesn't diminish me. And I'm not afraid of him.
ELLIE: This is why voters love you. Your humanity and everything. I've never projected humanity.
RAYMOND: Yes I think telling people you want to "round up all the towelheads and throw
ELLIE: ( laughs ) That was a joke, you dreadful boy.
ELLIE: Carpetbag steak.
RAYMOND: Stuffed. With oysters?
ELLIE: The steak part is mostly for you. Doesn't it look yummy?
RAYMOND: My God. In the world's literature of food could there possibly be a more vulgar dish?
ELLIE: And eating it is an absolute sexual experience. Try some.
RAYMOND: Promise me that you'll help him.
ELLIE: Oh, Raymond, how much do you really know about your friend?
MARCO: I went to talk to him. But he wasn't
AGENT GOLDRING: Talk about what?
AGENT GOLDRING: A lone woman, SPECIAL AGENT VOLK, sits in a distant corner on a folding chair. She's implacable, staring intently at Marco. Ramirez holds up the notebook a page of crazy drawings and text.
MARCO: Yeah, there are hundreds more of those in his apartment. Did your people check out his place ?
AGENT JONAS: Colonel Garret kindly showed us the file on you, Marco, you're the shit: Special Forces. Rangers. Delta.
MARCO: I wanted to talk to Corporal Melvin about some unanswered questions involving our reconnaissance mission in Kuwait, back in
AGENT JONAS: ( talks over him ) And he wasn't there, so, what you thought it'd be okay to break in and wait for him?
MARCO: ( at Howard ) I know this game. Will you explain to them that I know this game?
AGENT RAMIREZ: Oh right. Army Intelligence. Isn't that an oxymoron?
MARCO: Yeah. Kinda like 'special agent.'
COLONEL GARRET: Cut it out, Major.
AGENT GOLDRING: What's your obsession with Raymond Shaw?
AGENT RAMIREZ: Man of his dreams.
MARCO: Listen, you might want to advise your ME to check for an implant in Corporal Melvin's back under the skin, just shy of the scapula, left side . if he's not looking for it, he won't find it.
MARCO: I didn't have anything to do with Corporal Melvin's death.
AGENT JONAS: Yeah, well, that's your opinion, but judging from your file here, apparently you don't know your shit from your oatmeal, my friend
AGENT JONAS: ( taunting Marco ) Go ahead, nutball. Try it.
AGENT JONAS: He hit me! Fuck!
MARCO: He said I could.
ELLIE: Isn't it disgraceful the way troubled individuals are allowed to simply walk around with the rest of us until something horrible happens? Another failure of the HMOs. I'm thinking of sponsoring a bill, with Senator Friedman of Rhode Island
RAYMOND: I don't care.
ELLIE: Well, imagine how terrified your people were yesterday when Major Marco showed up at the airport and you invited him my God, invited him to tag along. Knowing what they knew.
RAYMOND: I know him. I served under him. He was a good man.
ELLIE: That's what the neighbors always say about serial killers.
ELLIE: ( sighs ) Perhaps we could arrange a promotion to a less stressful posting. Somewhere
AGENT GOLDRING: ( to Marco ) Get out of here.
AGENT GOLDRING: Shaw won't press charges, and he's got juice with important friends. It's today's daily double.
COLONEL GARRET: Someone from Senator Eleanor Shaw's office called and intervened on your
COLONEL GARRET: Major, you have reached the terminal end of the Army's patience. You're relieved of duty, effective immediately.
MARCO: Sir, I know all about Dr. Zahn. Remember? He's that guy who Sir. Yes sir. I'm sorry.
DELP'S VOICE: I thought you said you lost this.
MARCO'S VOICE: I found it again.
DELP: These are not supposed to exist, man. These are only theoretical.
DELP: You sure you want to do this man?
MARCO: because I don't.
DELP: because I don't.
MARCO: I'll owe you one.
MARCO: sits on one of the experimental gurneys, using a pen to write on his arm.
DELP: No. I'll still owe you for getting my sorry ass out of Albania.
MARCO: Talk to me about the implant.
DELP: Manchurian Global. Heard of 'em? Private equity fund, specializes in military support services and weapons research . including a certain Army implant project that went belly-up in the early 90s.
MARCO: You said the Army implants were for medical emergency data.
DELP: The ones they publicized were. But, oh man, there was a parallel project of all kinds of scary implantable shit the Clinton watchdogs finally freaked out over, and closed down.
MARCO: How do you know all this?
DELP: Cuz they funded me to make some of their scary shit.
MARCO: What does it do?
DELP: I don't know. I don't want to know. You don't want to know shit it's out of you, and you're still alive. That's the good news. What are you doing?
MARCO: Back-up in case this makes me forget some stuff I want to remember.
DELP: eases Marco back on the gurney, deftly puts some I.V. taps into his arms. Marco's legs hang over the edge.
DELP: These are built for monkeys, so bear with me, man.
DELP: I'm putting you on a cocktail of methohexitol to take the edge off.
MARCO: Edge off what?
DELP: 'Getting clarity.' Or whatever you want to call it ECT not being the precise science that, say, leeching is.
MARCO: You don't think this is going to work.
DELP: It's the desperation move, man. But, hey. There is a school of thought, says a victim of induced abreaction or ultra-paradoxical brain activity, if you're at all correct about what happened to you can have it effectively dispersed by electroshock. Unscrambled.
MARCO: But the legions of naysayers will tell you that if the initial work's done correctly if the brain's been not just washed, but dry-cleaned
DELP: But the legions of naysayers will tell you that if the initial work's done correctly if the brain's been not just washed, but dry-cleaned
DELP: fuhgetaboutit. No sale. Try to relax, okay?
ROSIE: Blank again?
ROSIE: He said this would happen.
MARCO: Your friend.
ROSIE: Your friend.
MARCO: I don't remember a friend. Kind of like a computer system crash your brain goes down, then you boot up again, but you lose all your RAM. Do you remember me?
ROSIE: Kind of like a computer system crash your brain goes down, then you boot up again, but you lose all your RAM. Do you remember me?
MARCO: ( after a beat ) Eugenie Rose.
MARCO: It's Wednesday.
ROSIE: Central Park was Monday. I came home That's right.
MARCO: Central Park was Monday. I came home That's right.
ROSIE: ( smiles ) That's right.
MARCO: How did I get here?
ROSIE: You called me.
MARCO: El Dorado 59970. I remembered. I remember, and I didn't dream.
ROSIE: It's been weird, talking to you. Knowing that you could fall asleep with your eyes open and wake up and have forgotten the whole conversation. I hope to God that part's over.
MARCO: What'd we talk about?
ROSIE: ( vague ) ( then ) You said you "loved" me. Not to scare you. Out of nowhere, but more than once.
MARCO: I remember that.
ROSIE: What else did we talk about?
MARCO: What else did we talk about?
AUDIO TAPES: Microcassettes, neatly labelled with dates and hours .
ROSIE: Rosie, rolling off the bed, sleepy, crossing to where Marco is gathering the files
ROSIE: What are you . oh God.
MARCO: You're part of it.
ROSIE: 8/18/03 84.
ROSIE: Don't do this, Ben. It's not what you How can you know what I think?
MARCO: How can you know what I think?
THEY FIGHT: Rosie can't beat him, but she's extremely skilled Marco gets stung twice by hard rights but whirls, all-defense, an improvised rope-a-dope that gives him the opening he he SMACKS Rosie sharply, stunning her and as she rocks backward he flies out the door
ROSIE: 136 EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAWN 136
BEN!: 136 EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAWN 136
ROSIE'S VOICE: ( audio surveillance tape ) You said you "loved" me .
ROSIE'S VOICE: . Not to scare you. Out of nowhere, but more than once.
MARCO'S VOICE: I remember.
MARCO'S VOICE: ( bleeding through earphones ) What else did we talk about?
ROSIE'S VOICE: Raymond Shaw. And about what happened to you, after you were captured. Black helicopters, secret laboratories, mind drugs, mad scientists, shock-torture .
MARCO'S VOICE: You don't believe any of it.
ROSIE'S VOICE: It's crazy. It sounds crazy.
MARCO'S VOICE: maybe that's what they want. Maybe that's what they want.
MARCO'S VOICE: I watched Raymond Shaw kill someone. I watched him kill Private Eddie Mavole. Like it was nothing.
MARCO: And I think they made me kill someone too. One of my people. Kid named Bobby
ROSIE: Or they want you to think that you did.
MARCO'S VOICE: . We were all hooked up to IV tubes and wires and equipment heart monitors, head monitors, electroshock and a lot of stuff I've never seen before .
ROSIE'S VOICE: Did he have a name?
MARCO'S VOICE: Marco stares at the photograph.
ROSIE'S VOICE: The doctor, Ben what was his name? Can you remember?
MARCO: Noyle. They called him Dr. Noyle.
NOYLE: . we really can reinvent ourselves, you know, by the remapping of the human genome. Strengthen character, enhance personality, not unlike tummy tucks and breast augmentation. Generate extraordinary abilities in math, music, athletics. Tweak the sympathy gene, boost self-confidence
AIDE: I called the Pentagon. They told me he's on medical leave.
VICE PRESIDENT?": Secret Service, they've got him on a couple of their watch and observe lists.
AIDE: Secret Service, they've got him on a couple of their watch and observe lists.
AIDE: I guess there's been some trouble with this guy, involving Congressman Shaw.
JORDAN: Nobody will believe this.
MARCO: Nobody believed Watergate.
MARCO: Or Oklahoma City, or the World Trade Center. You wouldn't have believed Oswald before Kennedy got shot.
JORDAN: On the advisory board of Manchurian- Global, should they ever publish a list which they won't you would find former Presidents, deposed Kings, retired Prime Ministers, Ayatollahs, African War-Lords, fallen Communist Dictators and an assortment of the Fucking Rich, who are distinguished from the merely Filthy Rich by factors of billions.
JORDAN: You bring me rumors and conjecture.
MARCO: I started with nightmares, sir. Rumors and conjecture are a giant leap forward.
JORDAN: Nightmares you've interpreted, using as primary resources a ) your spotty memory, b ) the internet sacred sanctuary of idiots and nutters and c ) random faces and coincidences, and evidence you chewed out of a man's back all neatly stitched together with the common thread of a powerful, well-connected private equity fund who will plead ignorance, and be shocked, shocked, to learn what
MARCO: Sir, I don't give a rat's ass about Manchurian Global! That's not why I'm I can't touch them, I get that, I'm not stupid, sir.
MARCO: I just want to try and stop this one thing this Raymond Shaw bomb from going off.
MARCO: And I'd be lying if I told you I hadn't factored in huge that you've got a vested personal, political, and patriotic interest in how this shakes out.
ELLIE: The man is insane, Tom full-blown schizophrenia he's been stalking Raymond if you dare to use this
ELLIE: ( to Raymond ) Your bipolar buddy has been sharing his dreams with Senator Jordan.
JORDAN: Hello Raymond.
RAYMOND: Hello Senator. How's Jocie?
ELLIE: Can we please not go down that road?
JORDAN: Do you recognize this man?
RAYMOND: His name is Atticus Noyle. He is a South African physician, neuropsychiatric scientist and mercenary someone our CIA trained for covert mind warfare against the Soviets in Aghanistan someone who has sold technology to and done research for terrorist groups, and rogue states. Major Marco claims that this man
JORDAN: His name is Atticus Noyle. He is a South African physician, neuropsychiatric scientist and mercenary someone our CIA trained for covert mind warfare against the Soviets in Aghanistan someone who has sold technology to and done research for terrorist groups, and rogue states. Major Marco claims that this man
RAYMOND: Sir, Ben Marco is sick. Delusional.
JORDAN: Nevertheless he's pulled from his mad hat some remarkably lucid connections between his dreams of your exploits in Kuwait, and this Dr. Noyle, and the private equity fund Manchurian Global
JORDAN: your mother's primary political benefactor for the past fifteen years.
ELLIE: Christ, Tom. They contribute to half the Senate, for God's sake. I don't understand.
RAYMOND: I don't understand.
JORDAN: At the time of Desert Storm, Dr. Atticus Noyle was working under a research grant from Manchurian Global. Your mother's
RAYMOND: Rogue scientists. Mind control. Manchurian Global. Your mother. You. Connect the dots, Raymond. Possibly, your mother's blind to them, because they pay their way
JORDAN: Rogue scientists. Mind control. Manchurian Global. Your mother. You. Connect the dots, Raymond. Possibly, your mother's blind to them, because they pay their way
ELLIE: Possibly the Senator's motives are colored by his desperation to get himself back on the presidential ticket now that the heavy lifting is done
RAYMOND: ( unraveling ) I don't I don't
JORDAN: It's not about me. As far as I'm concerned, this should never come out it would shred what little remains of the fabric of our public trust think of the nation
RAYMOND: I don't have the dreams.
ELLIE: He can't prove anything.
JORDAN: Everything you stand for is upside down! If this were to come out, true or no, it would be catastrophic for the campaign. And it will come out.
RAYMOND: What are you saying?
RAYMOND: What do I do?
JORDAN: You withdraw. You bow out gracefully. Personal reasons. An obscure illness. Yield your spot on the ticket, go into seclusion .
JORDAN: . and then surrender yourself to federal authorities who can help you address the damage that may have been inflicted on you.
RAYMOND: I feel sick. Christ. What have you done to me?
ELLIE: Raymond, remember when
RAYMOND: NO, never mind don't bother. Don't lie. Don't say anything. No more lies.
RAYMOND: I can promise you that whatever you've done, I will undo it.
ELLIE: I know I know, baby
RAYMOND: I never want to see you or speak to you I mean it this time.
ELLIE: I mean it this time.
RAYMOND: I mean it this time.
ELLIE: Sergeant Shaw
ELLIE: Sergeant Raymond Shaw
ELLIE: Raymond Prentiss Shaw
JORDAN: Who's that?
RAYMOND: It's me, sir.
JORDAN: stops paddling, and lets the kayak drift in. He's breaking hard, sweat glistening on his face.
RAYMOND: sloshes down into the water, wades out waist-deep
JORDAN: Wait. Oh, don't do that, I can
RAYMOND: I came to apologize, sir.
JORDAN: the water must be freezing. What are you doing? Raymond. Don't bother, I
RAYMOND: I'm sorry.
JORDAN: I am too. But, your mother must
RAYMOND: I'm sorry, sir.
JOCELYN: Raymond turns and sees her running toward him. For a moment time stands still Jocie trying to process Raymond Shaw in the water with her father, and Raymond trying to process, through the curtain of his fractured consciousness, Jocelyn Jordan.
DADDY!: Raymond turns and sees her running toward him. For a moment time stands still Jocie trying to process Raymond Shaw in the water with her father, and Raymond trying to process, through the curtain of his fractured consciousness, Jocelyn Jordan.
JOCELYN: leaps into the water, thinking she'll help with a rescue. The cold hits her like a sledgehammer followed by the realization Raymond's trying to drown her father
JOCELYN: Raymond, what are you doing?! No! Stop it! Stop !
RAYMOND: turns, grabs her by the hood of her sweatshirt and whipsaws her out into the deeper water, shoving her under it. Jocelyn's hands claw at him, but he's stronger, and the water has no effect on him. She thrashes wildly . and he looks down at her through the water, hair flowing, utterly beautiful . as if in a dream.
RAYMOND: ( far away )
DONOVAN: You trusted us to bring your son back to you, and we deliver. We trusted you with our technology and now you turn him into a common hit man.
ELLIE: Oh, don't lecture me
DONOVAN: You didn't even ask us. You needed to Tom Jordan was going to destroy everything we've worked toward, and every one of us along with it, and you want me to call a meeting?
ELLIE: Tom Jordan was going to destroy everything we've worked toward, and every one of us along with it, and you want me to call a meeting?
WHITING: David, if Jordan had gone public
DONOVAN: In any endeavor, there are key players and role players, and Raymond or you, or me, for that matter I'm sorry we are role players, with fixed values and fixed agendas, that get weighed against other factors.
ELLIE: ( then ) You can tell yourself that as you go to bed tonight, David, and I hope it helps you wake up tomorrow with a clean conscience but we are talking about my son and the future of this country. ( beat ) My father, Tyler Prentiss, never asked. He just did what needed to be done.
MARCO: ( a whisper ) How does the President die?
MARCO: When. Where. How.
MARCO: I'm gonna stop this. We'll go to the Feds. You and me. And tell them a Who'll believe
ROSIE: Who'll believe
MARCO: I don't know. I don't care any more. It's all I have.
ROSIE: comes up holding a 9 mm revolver to Marco's forehead.
ROSIE: I am the Feds.
ROSIE: We've been watching you, trying to sort this out. I mean, it's either you're telling it straight and we've all got something big-time to worry about, or you're crazy and dangerous either way we've had to keep you on a short leash, 'cuz if we lock you up we'll never know. And we can't tell anybody because we don't know how deep this river runs. If there is a river. You got away from me.
MARCO: Raymond Shaw murdered Senator Jordan and his daughter.
ROSIE: ( shaking her head ) Oh Ben. The thing is? I want to believe you. God help me, Ben, I do.
MARCO: he's a time bomb, ticking
ROSIE: Everybody else wants you junked up on Thorazine and just not a problem any I am clearer on this than I've ever been. It's rich guys, funding bad science, to put a sleeper in the White House
MARCO: I am clearer on this than I've ever been. It's rich guys, funding bad science, to put a sleeper in the White House
ROSIE: Listen to yourself. You're a poster boy for paranoid fantasies.
MARCO: I screwed up. Jordan was my trump card, and I screwed it up. Either help me, or shoot me, Rosie. There's no middle ground anymore.
NOYLE: Raymond Raymond
RAYMOND: Aaaahhhhhhh !
MIRELLA: You okay?
RAYMOND: Yeah. Yes. Bad dream.
ANDERSON: We've arrived, Congressman.
RAYMOND: 171 EXT. P.S. 16 - WESTCHESTER - DAY 171
ROSIE: on the edge. She badges Anderson, and talks to him. He nods, moves over and talks quietly to Raymond as Raymond signs his name in the voter registration log. Then lets Rosie guide him to a booth on the end
RAYMOND: I was on the fence when I walked in there . but then I saw my name on the ballot and I knew what I had to do.
ROSIE: It's clean.
MARCO: How's your back?
RAYMOND: It hurts.
MARCO: I'm sorry. I've been having the dreams, Ben.
RAYMOND: I've been having the dreams, Ben.
MARCO: That's good.
RAYMOND: Good? They're inside my head. They got inside, the way you said they would
MARCO: We'll get 'em out.
RAYMOND: They're all . twisted together and I dream things, terrible things, that can't possibly have happened. I'm gone, Ben I'm losing it
MARCO: No you could have had me locked up and you didn't. That's a sign.
RAYMOND: Of what?
MARCO: That they don't control everything. We can fight it. I mean I'm still out here because you decided I should be which means there's a part they can't get to, deep inside the part where the truth is, and they can't touch us there. That's what we need to tap into, Raymond, that's the part where, you and me, we're gonna take them out.
RAYMOND: Jocie's dead.
MARCO: I know.
RAYMOND: and the Senator.
MARCO: Did I do it?
RAYMOND: Did I do it?
MARCO: I think so, yeah.
RAYMOND: I don't remember. I don't remember it.
RAYMOND: I'm all inside-out.
RAYMOND: Just a minute.
RAYMOND: All I've ever done is what I was supposed to do. What I was told to do
MARCO: Raymond focus
RAYMOND: What others want me to do.
MARCO: Did they tell you what they want you to do, Ray? We gotta know what's gonna happen, we gotta know when's it gonna happen you can help me do this
RAYMOND: You don't think they saw this coming? You don't think they factored you in? I need to die, Ben.
MARCO: What? No no, man, they've got big plans for you
RAYMOND: I'm the enemy, Major Marco, and the only way to stop me is to kill me. I thought you were smarter than this.
MARCO: I can get the Feds, the police. Come on, Ray fight it
RAYMOND: Are we friends?
MARCO: Raymond, you gotta work with me here
RAYMOND: I want to believe we're friends.
MARCO: Raymond, stay focused. The irrefutable fact is that Jocie was a mistake, and we're gonna make 'em pay for it.
RAYMOND: I dream you, Ben. You kill Private What are you talking about?
MARCO: What are you talking about?
RAYMOND: ( into the phone ) Yes mother.
MARCO: Hang up.
RAYMOND: ( into the phone ) Yes, he's right here.
RAYMOND: She wants you.
ELLIE: Is this Major Marco?
MARCO: Yes it is, Senator.
ELLIE: Major Bennett Marco
MARCO: Yeah .?
ELLIE: Bennett Ezekiel Marco
MARCO: 181 INT. P.S. 16 - CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER 181
ELLIE: 181 INT. P.S. 16 - CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER 181
ROSIE: fights through the throng of students to the office door. Now it's locked. She bangs on it KICKS it open
PUSH IN: 188 INT. PLAZA HOTEL SUITE - LATE AFTERNOON 188 TV188 A beautiful suit laid out on the king-size bed . shoes TV188
ELLIE: . because, of course, the assassin the deranged, obsessed, tragically
RAYMOND: The Major is an excellent marksman.
RAYMOND: But what will happen to him?
ELLIE: ( gentle ) The assassin always dies, baby. It's necessary for the national healing.
ELLIE: I'm sure you will never entirely comprehend this, darling, and I know, the way you are right now, this is like trying to have a whimpered conversation with someone on a distant star . but it must be said, Raymond I did this for you so that you could have what I could not, what your father didn't want what your grandfather dared to dream
ELLIE: when you ran away to join the Army, after that girl, after Jocie when you swore you'd never speak to me again, I felt your father's shadow pass across us, and I couldn't let him run you the way he ruined himself. That's when Mark Whiting came to me with talk of extraordinary scientific breakthroughs . Attitude adjustment . Reconciliation . Greatness. So I let them take you, and change you. Not too much. Not so much that you'd notice. Just enough to bring you back to me.
RAYMOND: Yes, mother.
ELLIE: And look what you have, now! Look how far we've come! It's working, darling they think they own you, but they are very, very wrong. You're not something they can buy and sell, Raymond, not for
RAYMOND: Yes, mother. How much you look like my father, now you have his hands, and you hold your head in the same proud way. And when you smile it's like I'm a little girl again, When you smile when you smile
ELLIE: How much you look like my father, now you have his hands, and you hold your head in the same proud way. And when you smile it's like I'm a little girl again, When you smile when you smile
ANDERSON: All clear.
UNLIT CORRIDOR: Marco slips in and out of darkness. Passing no one. NOISE echoing insanely from the ballroom.
DIRECTOR: Okay. Crowd cheering. Much elation. The president moves to his mark
ROSIE: is off to one side with a couple other Feds and a SECURITY GUY, reviewing the entry tapes from earlier
ROSIE: there's Marco. The image slows. Marco moves herky-jerky through the security station, stop-action. Rosie pretends she's interested in somebody else then:
ROSIE: No .
ROSIE: A tiny island of worry in a sea of celebration. The huge light grids ripple with patriotic bunting effects. She scans the crowd, the perimeter, the balconies .
DIRECTOR: Dammit, Shaw missed his first position Find him go with him
DIRECTOR: Now music
MARCO: calmly putting a clip into the handgun from his kit starting to raise it
ROSIE: She shoots him.
BEN!!!: She shoots him.
JOHNSTON: Jesus. Jesus H. Christ . Jesus H. Christ .
ANOTHER FRAME: Marco turning toward us. His FACE becoming artificially highlighted, digitized MORPHED. ZOOM IN as his features BEGIN TO CHANGE. Non-descript. New features emerging. Caucasian. Not Marco. CLICKING of a keyboard, and ROSIE'S REFLECTION becomes visible across the screen of THE VIDEO MONITOR on which the security footage flickers. We are:
MEDIA ICON: . President-elect Arthur has vowed to bring to justice whatever nation or nations are responsible. Still reeling from the recent tragic loss of Senator Thomas Jordan, Congress has already announced a fresh investigation into Jordan's death, in an effort to learn if it is in any way related to .
MARCO: You don't develop a technology like that and waste it on two guys.
ROSIE: We know that.
MARCO: I remember running.
MARCO: I had to get out where the sky was.
MARCO: I had to get to the water.
MARCO: I thought: if I can just get to the water, everything will be okay.
