"RED DRAGON": Michael Mann
SECOND DRAFT: July 20, 1984
CRAWFORD: I should have caught you at the boat yard when you got off work. You don't want to talk about it here.
GRAHAM: I don't want to talk about it If you brought pictures, leave them in the briefcase. Molly and Kevin will be back soon.
CRAWFORD: How much do you know?
GRAHAM: What was in the 'Miami Herald' and the 'Times.' Eighty-six so far. All cranks. He smashes the mirrors and uses the None of them knew that;
CRAWFORD: Eighty-six so far. All cranks. He smashes the mirrors and uses the None of them knew that;
GRAHAM: What else did you keep out of the Blond, right-handed, really strong, wears a size eleven shoe. The prints are all smooth gloves. He's on a full moon cycle. Both times. His blood is AB Positive.
CRAWFORD: Blond, right-handed, really strong, wears a size eleven shoe. The prints are all smooth gloves. He's on a full moon cycle. Both times. His blood is AB Positive.
GRAHAM: Somebody hurt him?
CRAWFORD: Typed him from semen. He's a secretor.
CRAWFORD: Will. you saw this in the papers. The second one was all over TV. Did you ever think about givin' me a Why not?
GRAHAM: Why not?
CRAWFORD: Why not?
GRAHAM: The Bureau already has the best lab. Plus you have Bloom at the University of Chicago.
CRAWFORD: And I got you down here fixing fuckin' boat motors.
GRAHAM: You don't need me. I wouldn't be useful to you anymore, Jack.
CRAWFORD: Last two like this we had, you That was three years ago. And by doing the same things you and the rest of them at the lab are doing.
GRAHAM: That was three years ago. And by doing the same things you and the rest of them at the lab are doing.
CRAWFORD: That's not entirely true, Will. It's the way you think.
GRAHAM: I think there has been a lot of bullshit about the way I think. I came down here to get away from all that.
CRAWFORD: You look all right now.
GRAHAM: I am all right.
CRAWFORD: If you can't look anymore, I As long as they're dead.
GRAHAM: As long as they're dead.
CRAWFORD: These are all dead, Will.
PICTURES: If we expected gory crime photos, these are not them. Two snapshots: a woman followed by three children and a duck carrying picnic items up a bank of a pond. A second family behind a birthday cake at a table. They're all smiling.
MOLLY: He stopped by to see me at the shop before he came out here.
GRAHAM: What did he want?
MOLLY: He asked how you are.
GRAHAM: And you said?
MOLLY: I said you are fine, he should leave you the hell alone.
GRAHAM: I'm a forensic specialist, Molly. You've seen my diploma? I got a diploma and everything.
MOLLY: You mended a crack in the wallpaper with your diploma. You are open and easy now. It took you a lot of work to get to that.
GRAHAM: We have it good, don't we?
MOLLY: All the things that happened to you before make you know that.
GRAHAM: What the hell can I do?
MOLLY: ( after a pause ) What you've already decided. You're not really asking.
GRAHAM: If I were?
MOLLY: ( facing him ) Stay here with me. Me. Me. Me. And Kevin. ( heat ) That's selfish, huh?
GRAHAM: ( touches the side of her face ) I don't care. ( beat> He'll never see me or know my name. If we find him, the police will have to take him down. Not me, I'm just looking at evidence.
KEVIN: Will it keep them out?
GRAHAM: Yeah. ..
KEVIN: How many turtle eggs you think are in here?
GRAHAM: In this hatchery? Forty to fifty.
KEVIN: Crabs would get most of the newborns before they made it to the sea, huh?
GRAHAM: Yeah, but not now.. These will all make it. guaranteed.
MOLLY: Whatever I say, you'll take him away, won't you?
CRAWFORD: I have to.
MOLLY: You're his friend, Jack. Why can't you leave him alone?
CRAWFORD: Because it's his bad luck to be He thinks you want him to look at Nobody's better with evidence. But he has the other thing, too. He doesn't like that part of it.
MOLLY: He thinks you want him to look at Nobody's better with evidence. But he has the other thing, too. He doesn't like that part of it.
CRAWFORD: Nobody's better with evidence. But he has the other thing, too. He doesn't like that part of it.
MOLLY: You wouldn't like it, either if you had it.
CRAWFORD: Talking about 'like,' you don't like me very much, do you?
MOLLY: ( beat ) I don't like people who park in the 'handicapped zone'.
CRAWFROD: I'LL try to keep him as far away from it as I can.
GRAHAM: ( distant ) Thanks for the lift.
OFFICER: I'll come inside with you, if you like, but Mr. Crawford said you'd probably want to be alone.
GRAHAM: That's right.
OFFTCER: There's a VTR setup waiting in your hotel room, that you asked for They transferred the home movies of both families once half-inch VHS.
GRAHAM: ( getting out )
GRAHAM'S FEET: walk through the kitchen as if he knows where he is going. A thermostat clicks and air conditioning comes on loudly. Graham's feet pass our of frame.
BLOOD: screams at us from the walls.
GRAHAM: intruder entered through kitchen sliding door. Probably a glass cutter. Why didn't he care that he left AB saliva on the glass? it was hot out that night. inside, the house must' have been pleasantly cool to him. The intruder cut Charles Leeds' throat as he lay asleep beside Mrs. Leeds. He shot Mrs. Leeds as she was rising. Bullet entered the right of her navel and lodged in her lumbar spine, but she died of strangulation. increase of serotonin and free histimine levels in the gunshot wound indicates. she lived at least five minutes after she was shot. All her other injuries were post-mortem. Then he went toward the children's Direction and velocity of blood stains on the east wall indicate arterial spray.;. With his throat cut, Mr. Leeds still tried to fight. Because the intruder was moving to the children's room. in the children's room the intruder shot the first boy in bed. Second boy was found in bed, but dustballs indicate he was dragged out from under his bed to be shot.
GRAHAM: There's a wicker dog bed on the back porch. There's a doghouse in the back yard. Where's the dog?
CONVENTIONEER #1: .like to rip me off a piece of Fuck her 'til her nose bleeds.
CONVENTIONEER #2: Fuck her 'til her nose bleeds.
GRAHAM: snaps alert and stares at Conventioneer #2.
CONVENTIONEER #2: sips his gin and tonic, senses Graham's stare. He smiles:
CONVENTIONEER #1: What the fuck are you lookin' at? What are you, a faggot?
GRAHAM: has hit the stop button. He picks up a measured field sketch of the master bedroom. The bloodstains are represented in outline. Three are along the left wall. The arterial splashes from Mr. Leeds are on the right wall. Mr. and Mrs. Leeds' body positions are indicated on the king-size mat- Graham can't go any further. He is frustrated. He picks up the phone and dials. He waits. Then:
GRAHAM: ( into the tape recorder ) When they were dead except possibly Mrs. Leeds he smashed the mirrors and began selecting shards that he used later on Mrs. Leeds. What did he do in the interval? Struggling with Mr. Leeds and killing the others would take less than a minute. What ( beat ) Three bloodstains on the east wall, not from Mr. Leed's arterial spray. What did killer do after they were
GRAHAM: ( into phone ) ( asleep ) ( beat ) Will? Is that you?
GRAHAM: It's me. I'll call you tomorrow, sweetheart. Go back to sleep. I love you.
GRAHAM: ( into tape recorder ) You moved the kids after you killed them, didn't you? Did you arrange them for your performance with Mrs. Leeds on their bed? Did you tie Mr. Leeds sitting up in bed? That's the postmortem ligature on his chest. Did you make them your audience? Did you open their eyes? There is something you can't afford for me to know about. Isn't there? Mrs. Leeds was lovely, wasn't she? It was maddening to have to wear gloves when you touched her, wasn't it? ( beat ) There was talcum powder on her leg. There was no talcum powder in the ( beat ) The powder they found came out of a rubber glove as you pulled it off to touch her. You took off your glove to touch her. DIDN'T YOU, YOU SON-OF-A-BITCH?! You touched her with your bare hands! And then you put the gloves back an. And you wiped her down! While your gloves were off? ( shouts )
EYES?!: FAST MOVEMENTS: GRAHAM'S HAND snakes out and hits the "Stop" button on the VTR.
PHONE: is picked up and we MOVE WITH IT to his face. Graham punches numbers into the phone. He waits. He clamps dawn again. He is cold, calm.
GRAHAM: Jack, this is Graham. Is Price still in Latent Prints?
GRAHAM: He is good. Bur not as good as Price.
GRAHAM: Mrs. Leeds' fingernails and toenails. I think he took off his gloves, Jack. And dust all the corneas of all their
SPRINGFIELD: Our people swear he wore surgeons' gloves the whole time. They dusted The report didn't mention nails and Why do you think he took his gloves Mrs. Leeds was a good-looking woman. I'd want to touch her skin in an intimate situation, wouldn't you?
GRAHAM: The report didn't mention nails and Why do you think he took his gloves Mrs. Leeds was a good-looking woman. I'd want to touch her skin in an intimate situation, wouldn't you?
SPRINGFIELD: Why do you think he took his gloves Mrs. Leeds was a good-looking woman. I'd want to touch her skin in an intimate situation, wouldn't you?
GRAHAM: Mrs. Leeds was a good-looking woman. I'd want to touch her skin in an intimate situation, wouldn't you?
SPRINGFIELD: ( sudden distaste ) 'Intimate? !"
GRAHAM: Yes. 'Intimate.' They had privacy. Everybody else was dead.
SPRINGFIELD: All right. House to house interviews will be extended four additional blocks. R & I has loaned us two clerks to help cross-matching airline reservations between Birmingham last month and between Atlanta now. Dr. Princi.
DR. PRINCI: This is what the subject's teeth look like. The Smithsonian in Washington reconstructed them from the impressions we took of bite marks off the Leeds woman here and off the Jacobi woman last month in As you can see, he has pegged lateral incisors the teeth here and here.
SPRINGFIELD: Investigator Graham has worked this kind of thing before. Can you add
SPRINGFIELD: Can't hear you. Can you come up to the front?
GRAHAM: He may have a history of biting barroom fights or child abuse.
SPRINGFIELD: He only bit women so far, right?
GRAHAM: That's all we know about.
SPRINGFIELD: What's average?
GRAHAM: Sex murder: three. He likes to bite. Six bad ones in Mrs. Leeds. Eight in Mrs. Jacobi. . that's all I have.
SPRINGFIELD: All right. Vice and Narcotics, take the K-Y cowboys and the leather bars. Marcus and Whitman heads up at the funeral. The rest of you, your assignments are on the sheet. Let's
SPRINGFIELD: One more thing: I've heard officers referring to the killer as the 'Tooth Yeah, yeah, but I don't want to hear that in public or internal memoranda. That's it.
SPRINGFIELD: ( to Crawford ) We don't have shit, and we know it.
SPRINGFIELD: ( to Graham ) The Commissioner was saying you were the one that caught Dr. Lecter three years ago. ( beat ) He killed nine people, didn't he?
GRAHAM: Nine that we know of. Two didn't What happened to them?
SPRINGFIELD: What happened to them?
GRAHAM: One's on the respirator at a hospital in Baltimore. The other is in a private mental hospital in Denver.
SPRINGFIELD: What did the psychologists say was wrong with Lecter?
GRAHAM: Psychologists call him a sociopath. They don't know what else to call What would you call him?
SPRINGFIELD: What would you call him?
SPRINGFIELD: To yourself.
GRAHAM: I call him a monster.
SPRINGFIELD: I understand he cut you pretty good.
GRAHAM: ( cold right turn What about the dog?
SPRINGFIELD: It's at the vet's. The kids brought it in with a puncture wound in the abdomen. icepick or an awl.
GRAHAM: Was the dog wearing a collar with the Leeds' name on it?
SPRINGFIELD: Did the Jacobis in Birmingham have a dog?
GRAHAM: Did the Jacobis in Birmingham have a dog?
CRAWFORD: ( alert ) A cat. We found a litter box downstairs but not the cat. Neighbors are watching for it.
GRAHAM: Why don't you get Birmingham P.D. a methane probe out of D.C. and have them cover the backyard. maybe the cat's dead and the kids buried it.
SPRINGFIELD: ( waits )
CRAWIIORD: Jimmie, it's me, Jack Crawford, and you got Will Graham here.
CRAWFORD: Can you make an identification off Don't know. The palm came off the nail of Mrs. Leeds' left big toe. I want to work these up in my own darkroom. I'll fax the prints down to you this afternoon.
SPRINGFIELD: senses Springfield's staring at him. Graham's face is blank. He leaves. Springfield shaking Crawford's hand watches Graham all the way to the door.
GRAHAM: senses Springfield's staring at him. Graham's face is blank. He leaves. Springfield shaking Crawford's hand watches Graham all the way to the door.
LOUNDS: Will Graham! Remember me? Freddie Lounds? I covered the Lecter case for the Tattler. I did the paperback. !
LOUNDS: ( running on, behind them ) When did they call you in, Will? What have you got?
CRAWFORD: Lounds, give it a rest.
LOUNDS: Come on, Graham?! Talk to me!
LOUNDS: How does this guy compare with Lecter? How does he do them?
GRAHAM: Grabs Lounds by the labels, kicks his legs out from under him and throws him over the hood of a car upside-down. The impact STARS the WINDSHIELD Lounds is scared to death. The violence totally surprises us. Graham's face is inches from Crawford is pulling on Graham. He can't budge him. Graham lets go.
GRAHAM: ( very low ) Keep the fuck away from me!
CRAWFORD: ( over his shoulder to Lounds ) Get the hell away from here, Lounds!
GRAHAM: .snuck in the hospital while I was sedated, flipped back the sheets and shot pictures. The only decent thing he did was run a black square over my balls.
CRAWFORD: I know.
GRAHAM: ( back to business ) Atlanta and Birmingham can run the thumb print against known sex offenders. Five will get you ten they don't come up with an identification. Jimmie may in the Finder program. if he's ever been printed and in his Index.
CRAWFORD: You walk in and see him. What is there about him that doesn't surprise you?
GRAHAM: face for me.
CRAWFORD: or we wouldn't have found the finger print. ..
CRAWFORD: families. Same vacation hotel; same hospital, different times. Then we check employees and come up with a male nurse, hairdresser, whatever. If we find out how he found them, then we'll find him.
GRAHAM: families. Same vacation hotel; same hospital, different times. Then we check employees and come up with a male nurse, hairdresser, whatever. If we find out how he found them, then we'll find him.
CRAWFORD: computers now. So far there's no event or service that doubles back into both families. Plus they were big consumers: snowmobiles, fishing trips, scuba, videogames, lots of routine medical and dental. It's a haystack. What's the other?
GRAHAM: husband gets to a gun in time.
CRAWFORD: a crowded room?' That's Ezio Pinza you're thinking about.
GRAHAM: a crowded room?' That's Ezio Pinza you're thinking about.
CRAWFORD: Because he has a genuine taste for it, Jack.
GRAHAM: Because he has a genuine taste for it, Jack.
CRAWFORD: See? You do know something about . I'm going to see Lecter. Crawford's cup of coffee stops in front of his mouth:
GRAHAM: ( long stare at Crawford; then ) . I'm going to see Lecter.
CRAWFORD: For Christ's sake, why?
GRAHAM: ( matter-of-fact ) To recover the mind set.
GRAHAM: Hey, baby! Where are you?
GRAHAM: None you'd notice. I'm lonely.
GRAHAM: Tell me about yourself.
GRAHAM: ( laughs ) Let's keep it the day-to-day stuff. ( beat ) How's Kevin?
GRAHAM: Eating junk food. They don't have a lock on anything, Molly. There's not enough information. Or I haven't done enough with it.
GRAHAM: Z don't know. I'm goin' up to Baltimore this afternoon.
GRAHAM: I have to see somebody. There is a silence. Graham does not want to tell her that he is going to see Lecter. Molly stays cool, she doesn't pursue it.
GRAHAM: ( coming back ) Yeah. Ah. yellow, let's paint it Yellow's a bad color for me. I'LL look green at breakfast.
GRAHAM: Blue, then.
GRAHAM: Hey, goddamn it, paint it shit- brown for all I care. Look, I'm sorry. When I come home, we'll go to the paint store together and get some chips and. Molly interrupts:
GRAHAM: Molly, dear Molly. Go to bed now, baby. ..
GRAHAM: I love you.
DR. CHILTON: Dr. Bloom called me yesterday, Mr. Graham. Or should I call you Dr. I'm not a doctor. I need to see Lecter in as much privacy as possible.
TWO SHOT: Graham sits in front of his desk in a chair. He appears repressed, clamped down. Dr. Chilton is a sincere Chief of Staff, but not gifted.
DR. CHILTON: Dr. Lecter will stay in his room. That is absolutely the only place where he is not put in full body restraints. One wall of his room is a double barrier. I will have a chair put just outside.
GRAHAM: I might have to show him some material that could stimulate him.
DR. CHILTON: As long as it's on soft paper. You may( Pause ) find this curious. He pulls an EKG tape from a drawer and points to the spiky lines.
DR. CHILTON: Here Lecter's resting on the examining table getting an electrocardiogram. Complained of chest pains. Pulse seventy-two. Here he grabs the nurse's head and pulls her down to him. Here he's subdued by the attendant and Lecter's shoulder is dislocated. Do you notice the strange thing? His pulse never got over eighty- five. Even when he tore into her Dr. Chilton looks over at Graham, perhaps expecting a. response. There is nothing to read in Graham's face. It is a blank.
DR. CHILTON: The consensus around here is that the only person who has demonstrated any practical understanding of Dr. Hannibal Lecter is you, Mr. Graham. Can you tell me anything about him?
GRAHAM: 25 .
DR. CHILTON: When you saw Dr. Lecktor's murders, their 'style,' so to speak, were you able to reconstruct his fantasies? And did that help you identify him?
DR. CHILTON: looks at Graham. Dr. Chilton has seen a lot of hostility. Right now he's seeing some more.
GRAHAM: ( stands ) I want to see Lecktor now.
DR. CHILTON: Uh. sure.
LECKTOR: That's the same atrocious aftershave you wore in court three years ago.
GRAHAM: I keep getting it for Christmas.
LECKTOR: Did you get my card?
GRAHAM: I got it. Thank you.
GRAHAM' S: emotional reactions.
LECKTOR: And how is Officer Stuart? The one who was the first to see my basement.
GRAHAM: Stuart is fine.
LECKTOR: Emotional problems, I hear. He was a very promising young officer. Do you ever have any problems, Will?
GRAHAM: Of course, you don't. I'm glad you came. My callers are all professional. Clinical psychiatrists from cornfield colleges somewhere. Second-raters, the lot.
LECKTOR: Of course, you don't. I'm glad you came. My callers are all professional. Clinical psychiatrists from cornfield colleges somewhere. Second-raters, the lot.
GRAHAM: Dr. Bloom showed me your article on surgical addiction in the journal of Clinical Psychiatry.
LECKTOR: Very interesting, even to a layman. Lecktor rolls around and examines the term "layman" in his head. Then:
GRAHAM: Very interesting, even to a layman. Lecktor rolls around and examines the term "layman" in his head. Then:
LECKTOR: A layman.., layman. Interesting term. So many experts on government grants. And you say you're a 'layman?' But it was you who caught me, wasn't it, Will? Do you know how you did it'
GRAHAM: You've read the transcript. It's all there.
LECKTOR: No it's not. Do you know how you Did it Will?
GRAHAM: it matter now?
LECKTOR: ( smiles ) It doesn't matter to me, Will.
GRAHAM: ( laughs ) I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
LECKTOR: ( laughs ) I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
GRAHAM: ( laughs ) I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
LECKTOR: ( laughs ) I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
GRAHAM: ( laughs ) I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
LECKTOR: ( laughs ) I wouldn't want them to think I was dwelling on anything morbid. You want to know how he's choosing them, don't you?
GRAHAM: Research materials. I could speak to the Chief of Staff.?
LECKTOR: Research materials. I could speak to the Chief of Staff.?
GRAHAM: Research materials. I could speak to the Chief of Staff.?
LECKTOR: fumbles at your head like a freshman pulling at a panty girdle. He actually tries to give me a Thematic and Apperception test. Hah. Sat there waiting for MF-13 to come up. It's a card with a woman in bed and a man in the foreground. I was supposed to avoid a sexual interpretation. I laughed in his Never mind, it's boring.
GRAHAM: You'll get to see the file on this case. And there's another reason.
LECKTOR: Pray tell.
GRAHAM: I thought you might be curious to find our if you're smarter than the person I'm looking for.
LECKTOR: Then by implication, you think that you are smarter than me, since you caught me.
GRAHAM: No. I knew that I'm nor smarter than you are.
LECKTOR: Then how did you catch me, Will?
GRAHAM: You had disadvantages.
LECKTOR: What disadvantage?.
GRAHAM: You're insane.
LECKTOR: You're very tan, Will. Graham does not answer, If anything happens, there is a tightening of the musculature repressing his reactions to Your hands are rough. They don't look like a cop s hands anymore. That shaving lotion is something a child would select. It has a ship on the bottle, doesn't it? Another silence. Lecktor's eyes look as if they're drilling into Graham's head, trying to find out things. Trying to find a way to hurt Graham. He's very threatening. Then Don't think you can persuade me with appeals to my intellectual vanity.
LECKTOR: Your hands are rough. They don't look like a cop s hands anymore. That shaving lotion is something a child would select. It has a ship on the bottle, doesn't it? Another silence. Lecktor's eyes look as if they're drilling into Graham's head, trying to find out things. Trying to find a way to hurt Graham. He's very threatening. Then Don't think you can persuade me with appeals to my intellectual vanity.
LECKTOR: Don't think you can persuade me with appeals to my intellectual vanity.
GRAHAM: I don't think I'll persuade you. You'll do it or you won't. Dr. Bloom is working an it anyway, and he's the best.
LECKTOR: ( interrupts ) Do you have the file with you
GRAHAM: let me have them,, and I might consider it.
LECKTOR: let me have them,, and I might consider it.
GRAHAM: let me have them,, and I might consider it.
LECKTOR: let me have them,, and I might consider it.
GRAHAM: Do you dream much, Will?
LECKTOR: Do you dream much, Will?
GRAHAM: Good-bye, Dr. Lecktor.
LECKTOR: You haven't threatened to take away my books yet. Graham gets up and starts to walk away.
LECKTOR: let me have the file. Then I'll tell you what I think. Graham stops at the door before he knocks for the attendant. Then he folds the abridged file tightly into the sliding tray. Lecktor pulls it through.
GRAHAM: one. He waits. And he watches. What he sees:
DR. LECKTOR: Toothbrush, mirror, sink, Sryrofoam cups, soft paper jour- nals, T-shirts, neatly stacked hospital pads, sneakers with- no shoelaces, the wall, seatless toilet bowl, etc, etc All the objects are brilliantly lit with sharp bluish light. Their edges are sharper and more defined than normal. The shadows of the bars make hard-edged stripes. It is a high resolution, highly brilliant sec of images. It feels like a hyper-perception of reality, a super-realism perceived by the mind of Graham. It is interrupted when:
GRAHAM: snaps back to the present, looks at Lecktor.
LECKTOR: What were the yards like?
GRAHAM: Big backyards, fences, some hedges, Because, my dear Will, if this Pilgrim imagines he has a relationship with the full moon, he might go outside and look at it. Have you seen blood in moonlight, Will? It appears quite black. If one were nude, it would be better to have outdoor privacy for this sort of thing.
LECKTOR: Because, my dear Will, if this Pilgrim imagines he has a relationship with the full moon, he might go outside and look at it. Have you seen blood in moonlight, Will? It appears quite black. If one were nude, it would be better to have outdoor privacy for this sort of thing.
GRAHAM: That's interesting.
LECKTOR: It's not 'interesting'. You thought of it before.
GRAHAM: Yes. I'd considered it.
LECKTOR: You came here to look at me, Will. To get the old scent again, didn't I want your opinion.
GRAHAM: I want your opinion.
LECKTOR: I don't have one right now.
GRAHAM: When you do have one I'd like to hear it.
LECKTOR: May I keep the file?
GRAHAM: I haven't decided yet.
LECKTOR: I'll study it, Will. When you get more files, I'd like to see them, too. You can call me. When I have to call my lawyer, they bring me a telephone. Would you like to give me your home number? Do you know how you caught me, Goodbye, Dr. Lecktor. You can leave messages for me at the number on the file.
GRAHAM: Do you know how you caught me, Goodbye, Dr. Lecktor. You can leave messages for me at the number on the file.
LECKTOR: Do you know how you caught me, Goodbye, Dr. Lecktor. You can leave messages for me at the number on the file.
GRAHAM: Goodbye, Dr. Lecktor. You can leave messages for me at the number on the file.
LECKTOR: Do you know how you caught me?
EILEEN: Mr. Dollarhyde?
DOLLARHYDE: Yes, Eileen.
EILEEN: Bill told me to tell you there was a variation in the gamma of the number three developer. But he caught it.
DOLLARHYDE: On the densitometer it came out within tolerances.
EILEEN: On the densitometer it came out within tolerances.
DOLLARHYDE: Thank you, Eileen. Graciously Dollarhyde lets her go first and then he crosses to an empty table. He opens his newspaper.
LECKTOR: Thank you so much. I'll call you when I'm finished. Attendant hesitates. Then he leaves. Lecktor is allowed to call his attorney in privacy.
LECKTOR: picks up the phone and punches in his number.
LECKTOR: Can I have the number of Dr. Sidney Bloom, University of Chicago, Department of Psychiatry, please? Thank you. Dr. Sidney Bloom, please.
LECKTOR: What's his secretary's name Linda King. Just a moment. The TELEPHONE RINGS four times.
LECKTOR: Hi, Linda. ..
LECKTOR: Maybe you can help me. This is Bob Greer of Blaine & Edwards Publishing Company. Dr. Bloom asked me to send a copy of 'The Psychiatrist and the Law' to someone. Linda never sent me the address and phone number.
LECKTOR: I have to catch Federal Express within about five minutes. I'd be immensely appreciative if you'd pull it out of her Rolodex for me. There is a pause. Lecktor is waiting.
LECKTOR: ( smiling ) I'LL bet she has a call caddy right next to her phone.
LECKTOR: Well, zip that little Pointer right on down to the letter G.
LECKTOR: We're looking for Graham. The man the book is supposed to go to is a Ms. Will Graham.
LECKTOR: Now I'll bet it has his home address there, too
LECKTOR: Thank you very much. ON the phone as Lecktor hangs up.
STEWARDESS: contorts his body to pull his briefcase from under the seat in front. He extracts the Leeds and Jacobi files. From each he takes a snapshot of a happy family picture and paperclips them to the front of the files. He stands them on the dinner tray and stares at them.
GRAHAM: contorts his body to pull his briefcase from under the seat in front. He extracts the Leeds and Jacobi files. From each he takes a snapshot of a happy family picture and paperclips them to the front of the files. He stands them on the dinner tray and stares at them.
MOLLY: approaches in SLOW MOTION raising a bag of shrimp and a six- pack of Dos Equis.
GRAHAM: ( reverb, distant ) Block her off, Mitch.
GRAHAM: On the dock. The hot sun turns the water a brilliant aqua and silver. Graham's tan body in the violet shorts on the silver wood. Molly reaches in the bag for another shrimp. Graham looks at her.
MOLLY SMILES: as she rips the head off the shrimp. The warm mouth, Her shiny teeth look like a Pepsodent commercial.
GRAHAM'S EYES: ent place as we.
TRAY: The file has spilled open. Crime photos of the Leeds and Jacobi families with mirrors in their eyes and the almost separated head of Mr. Jacobi glaring at a weird angle the pornography of it all are spilled across Graham's tray and in his lap.
GRAHAM: mumbles apologies, scrambles to collect crime photos. The mother wants her seat changed.
GEEHAN: It was last Thursday. This couple from Duluth. I had them down to the short strokes talking mortgages I mean, that man could have written a check for the whole goddamn place. I'm figuring: Geehan , you lucky sonofabitch, you gonna unload this turkey. Then the squad car rolls up. They ask a coupla questions. The good officers give them the whole fuckin' guided tour. Who was laying where. Where all the blood sprayed. terrific! Off they go in their Sedan DeVille the hell out of here.
GRAHAM: Have any single men asked to look at it?
GEEHAN: Haven't asked me. Took four coats of interior latex, five in places. You can drop that key in the mailbox. You don't have to come back by, do you?
GRAHAM: Geehan leaves. The door closes with a SLAM.
DAY: Graham looking at the house from the third vantage point.
JACOBI BACKYARD: And turned earth where the cat was found.
BRANCHES: now obscure the Jacobi house. Something glints right.
GRAHAM: looks slowly up the tree trunk.
GRAHAM: hangs his coat on the branch of a neighboring tree and climbs the far side of the elm. His head and his cheek raise through limbs. His eye is six inches away when he finds a soft drink can wedged between limb and trunk.
GRAHAM: I love it. Sweet Jesus, yes come on, can. He photographs its placement with the camera on his belt, bracketing exposures. Then he tears a small branch and uses it to put the can in an evidence bag. Graham climbs higher until his foot is level to where he saw the mud. He looks to his left. Something he sees stops him cold.
A SYMBOL: is carved in the wood.
GRAHAM: photographs this as well as a branch that's been trimmed by a cutting tool. Then he looks.
GRAHAM: high in the tree, leans back against the trunk. Re seems frozen. Then:
GRAHAM: ( mumbling to himself ) . after you killed the cat and threw it into the yard, my man, you climbed up hero and waited. You used a cutting tool on these branches so you could see.
LONG! !: ( beat ) That's why you like houses with big yards, the easier to see them
DAY: Geehan showing some new candidates around the house. It's a YOUNG COUPLE and they look interested.
GEEHAN: They don't build houses this way anymore: solid lath and plaster construction. None of your drywall stuff and aluminum studs here. No sirree Bob!
WIFE: I like it, hon.
HUSBAND: Let's go to your office and see if we can work out some terms.
GEEHAN: Great. You goin' love this house! Geehan's got a sale. He's at the front door. He opens EXT. JACOBI HOUSE - DOOR - DAY The door is opened by Geehan and his big smile, shepherding his customers-to-be out the front door. The smile falls off Geehan's face. The young buyers look quizzically.
GEEHAN: has deflated against the doorframe.
GRAHAM: I'm sending the can to Jimmie Price to dust for prints. I need Bowman in Documents to fall on this carving. Then I need the Firearms and Toolmarks Section out here on the severed branch. I need to know what kind of cutting tool he used.
CRAWFORD: Is it weird?
CRAWFORD: If the Documents section can't do it. I'll send it up to Langley.
SARAH: No, Mr. Graham is not in the office, bur let me. Wait, I'll be glad to. Yes, he'll be in the office later, but let me. She holds the receiver as though it had died in her hand and crosses into Crawford's office.
CRAWFORD: ( to Graham ) . bur if we find him, the print as evidence will get a conviction, Hold on. What?
SARAH: He asked for Will. He said he might call back tonight. I tried to hold him. I'm sorry. He said 'tell Graham "broken mirrors."'
CRAWFORD: ( to Graham ) Will. Get right back here. He just called.
GRAHAM: Who did he ask for?
DR. BLOOM: Anybody want the rest of the cholesterol special?
CRAWFORD: Thanks, no.
GRAHAM: .so how do I play him, Sidney?
DR. BLOOM: Compliment him. Tell him most people don't have the intellectual capacity to understand what has happened, that sort of thing. If he's paranoid, play into his grievance. Let him air it. If he's picked you as an adversary and wants to gloat, give him what he's after. A little at a time.
CRAWFORD: . very little. If it's all electronic switching we'll need a minute for the trace. Graham turns to the window. Crawford taps a pencil on his desk. They wait,
SARAH: ( into phone ) Special Agent Crawford's office. ( beat ) Bill, call back on twenty-four four. We need to keep this line clear.
CRAWFORD: Where the hell's Graham!
SARAH: He went to the men's room.
CRAWFORD: For Christ's sake get him! An assistant runs out. RING. Sarah's anxious.
SARAH: Special Agent Crawford's office. Could you hold on a second, I'll see if I can find him. Sarah punches hold. Crawford is counting seconds. He raises his thumb. Graham grabs the phone.
GRAHAM: ( calm ) This is Will Graham. Can I help No. I can help you.
GRAHAM: I don't understand.
CRAWFORD: scribbles on a piece of paper.
GRAHAM: Talk to them a few minutes and you can tell they don't have the capacity to even understand what's going on. Do you?
GRAHAM: Let's get straight who we've talking about. Are you the man I'm interested in?
GRAHAM: He's right-handed.
GRAHAM: He's misunderstood.
GRAHAM: He's very strong physically.
GRAHAM: He's white and six feet tall. You haven't told me anything yet.
GRAHAM: I don't want to do that,
CRAWFORD'S: 2ND VOICE ( V.O. ) Who am I speaking to?
GRARAM: Will Graham, FBI.
GRAHAM: You tell me. You have a man in Damn right. Freddie Lounds. ZOOM IN ON Graham's face. It locks in rage.
GRAHAM: ( hollers ) Yeah. I'm preferring charges! Obstruction of justice. You lock that asshole up. You hold him for the U.S. Attorney! You.
LOUNDS: Will, listen.
DR. CHILTON: Come in.
GUARD: Dr. Chilton.
DR. CHILTON: When we were cleaning out Dr. Lector's cell, he heard us coming and hid something in a book.. We got him out of there and dug around. Dr. Chilton reacts.
GUARD: When we were cleaning out Dr. Lector's cell, he heard us coming and hid something in a book.. We got him out of there and dug around. Dr. Chilton reacts.
DR. CHILTON: ( fast ) Do you have it?
GUARD: Yeah. It's right here. Guard pulls three sheers of toiler paper with writing on them out of his pocket. We HOLD ON it.
DR. CHILTON: is already dialling a number.
DR. CHILTON: Put it down on my desk blotter and don't touch it again. Has anyone else handled it except you?
GUARD: CUT TO:
SARAH: Special Agent Crawford's office. In the b.g. all hell is breaking loose. Crawford and Graham are both hollering into the phone at Freddie Lounds.
SARAH: Speak up, please. I can hardly hear you!
SARAH: ( holding one ear closed ) I'm sorry. Special Agent Crawford and Graham are tied up tight now. Can I get them to call you back?
CRAWFORD: ( hollering ) How'd you know 'broken mirrors?' Bribe a cop? ( beat ) Tell it to the U.S. Attorney, ( seeing Sarah ) What is it?
GRAHAM: ( seeing Sarah ) What is it?
SARAH: It's a Dr. Chilton, sir. He says it's urgent. Graham punches the phone and takes the call. Crawford's yelling at Lounds.
GRARAM: It's Will Graham.
GRAHAM: Where did you get it?! Graham waves Crawford to the other phone.
CRAWFORD: ( to Lounds ) Run along to the police station, Freddie. We'll talk to you when we get around to it.
DR. CHILTON: It's written on toilet tissue. 'My dear Dr. Lecktor, I wanted to tell you I'm delighted that you've taken an interest in me. I know that you alone can understand what I'm becoming. 'I know you alone understand the reality of the people who die to help me in these things, understand that they are only elements undergoing change to fuel the radiance of what I am becoming. Just as the source of light is Mr. Graham, there's a hole torn and punched our, then it says. 'I have a complete collection of your press notices. f think of them as unfair. As unfair as mine. The "Tooth Fairy." What could be more inappropriate. Investigator Graham interests me. Very purposeful locking. I hope we can correspond. There's another piece missing here. I'LL read the bottom part. 'After I hear back from you, I might send you something wet. Signed: Avid Fan. It has teethmarks pressed in it at the bottom.
CRAWFORD: punches the other line.
CBAWFORD: Sarah, order a chopper. I want the next thing smoking and I don't care whose. Ours. DCPD. Or the Marines. Then call Documents. Tell them to scramble a team. I want everybody moving in five minutes. Dr. Chilton, please do not handle the note. I have a Documents team on the way to you by helicopter to pick it up.
GRAHAM: After we've worked the note we want to replace it in Lecktor's cell. I don't want him to know we found it. Where's Lector now?
GRAHAM: How long can you keep Lecktor out without him getting suspicious?
CRAWFORD: Have your building superintendent shut off the water and most of the lighting in Lecktor's hall. Have him walk through carrying tools and being pissed off or something,
CRAWFORD: ( hits another line ) Brian. We have a note coming in on the fly. Possibly from the Tooth Fairy. Number one priority., It has to go to Hair and Fiber, Latent Prints and Documents. Graham and I will be walking it
BEVERLY KATZ: One hair, Graham. Maybe a thirty- second of an inch. A couple of blue grains. I'll work it up. What else have you got?
GRAHAM: Hair from Lecktor's comb. Whiskers from an electric razor they let him use. This is hair from the cleaning man.
BOWMAN: ( without looking up ) How long do I have?
CRAWFORD: Twenty minutes max.
GRAHAM: The main thing is: how was Lecktor to reply.
BOWMAN: That's probably in the part Lecktor tore out. At the top it says: 'I hope we can correspond.' And then the hole begins . It looks like Lecktor went over it with a felt tip pen and then folded it and pinched most of it away.
BOWMAN: moves under a rostrum camera setup. There are lights mounted on a 360-degree rim even with the base of the rostrum Bowman hits a switch. The top lights go out. The side lights are very oblique.
LIGHTING PANEL: Bowman's fingers hit it. The room is darkened, except for a dull glow from the infrared source..
BOWMAN: ( chants under his breath ) You're so sly, but so am I.
ROSTRUM: Bowman switches to a closed-circuit TV camera.
MONITOR: The image focuses as Bowman focuses the lens. Then: The ink smear is gone. Fragments of writing appear.
GRAHAM: We know the Tooth Fairy reads the Tattler. The stuff about me and Lector? I don't know any other paper that carried it.
CRAWFORD: .there's three 't's' and an 'r'
GRAHAM: Personal ads? As they run out of the room:
CRAWFORD: all the personal ads in the Tattler right now.
BOWMAN: we substitute our own. Somewhere tomorrow night the Tooth Fairy will actually buy Tattler, looking for Lecktor's message. Here's what he'll find, Bill.
GRAHAM: we substitute our own. Somewhere tomorrow night the Tooth Fairy will actually buy Tattler, looking for Lecktor's message. Here's what he'll find, Bill.
BOWMAN: we substitute our own. Somewhere tomorrow night the Tooth Fairy will actually buy Tattler, looking for Lecktor's message. Here's what he'll find, Bill.
CRAWFORD: we substitute our own. Somewhere tomorrow night the Tooth Fairy will actually buy Tattler, looking for Lecktor's message. Here's what he'll find, Bill.
BILL: ( reads ) 'Dear Avid Fan: inherit my mantle and surpass my achievements. Mementoes for you at Baltimore Central. Left luggage 72683.
CRAWFORD: and stakeout. He shows: we take Anything from Chicago?
SARAH: kicks .
CRAWFORD: kicks .
PRICE: kicks .
BEVERLY KATZ: size match Hannibal Lecktor's. So does color. The color's different than the Tooth Fairy's taken in Birmingham and Atlanta. Three blue grains and some dark flecks went to Brian's end.
BRIAN ZELLAR: The grains are commercial granulated cleanser with chlorine. Must be from the cleaning man. There are several particles of dried blood. Not enough to type.
GRAHAM: It's Snow White toilet paper. National distribution. Bowman sets up his photographs on an easel.
BOWMAN: It's Snow White toilet paper. National distribution. Bowman sets up his photographs on an easel.
BOWMAN: ( beat ) If there's any doubt, we matched the indents of the bitemark on the note against the Smithsonian teeth. This is your boy. ( beat ) He folded the bottom part, including what Lecktor tore out. In this enlargement of the back side, oblique light revealed impressions. We can make out: 'six-six-six'. ( beat ) I didn't spot it until I had this high-contrast print. I advised Chicago as soon as I saw it.
CRAWFORD: Issue the toilet paper tear as a. The phone RINGS. Graham punches the speaker.
GRAHAM: Will Graham, Jack Crawford.
GRAHAM: Read it.
GRAHAM: That's it. Lecktor called him a Pilgrim when he was talking to me.
CBAWFORD: CHESTER ( V.O. ) 'I offer one hundred prayers for your safety. Find help in john 6:22, 8:16 9:1;Luke l:7, 3:1; Galatians 6:11. 15:2; Acts 3:3; Revelations 18:i; Jonah 6:8. ( beat ) It's signed: 'Bless you, 6:6:6'
CRAWFORD: ( checks watch ) . twenty-eight minutes. ( low to Sarah ) Cryptography at Langley?
SARAH: They got shot a Telex. They're on if now. Everybody exhibits disciplined surface calm. The tension is screaming underneath.
BOWMAN: furiously looking through pages of the Bible, suddenly stops.
BOWMAN: ( to Graham ) ( beat ) The numbers aren't right for a jailhouse alphabet code. It's a book code. ( beat ) And your message has to go out in it, or he'll know it's not Lecktor talking to him.
CRAWFORD: Book code?
BOWMAN: 'One hundred prayers' could be the page number. The paired numbers and the scriptural references could be line and letter. But what book?
CBAWFORD: Not the Bible?
BOWMAN: No. Galatians 15:2? Galatians has only six chapters. The same with Jonah 6:8 Jonah has four chapters. Lecktor wasn't using a Then the Tooth Fairy named the book in the part Lecktor tore out.
GRAHAM: Then the Tooth Fairy named the book in the part Lecktor tore out.
BOWMAN: Right . What about sweating Lecktor?
GRAHAM: They tried sodium amytal on him three years ago to find where he buried a Princeton student. He gave them a recipe for potato chip dip.
BOWMAN: it has to be a book the Tooth Fairy would know Lecktor has in his cell.
GRAHAM: He'd know it from articles he's read about Lecktor.
CRAWFORD: Willingham, when he tossed his cell, took Polaroids so they could get everything back in place.
BOWMAN: Have him meet me with pictures of Lecktor's books.
CRAWFORD: Library of Congress. Bowman's our the door.
BOWMAN: Library of Congress. Bowman's our the door.
GRAHAM: Twenty-five minutes. We won't make it in time.
CRAWFORD: ( looks at watch ) We let Lecktor's message run as is and decode it after. Or we pull it, work our the code and put ours in next week.
GRAHAM: Can we still get Lecktor's message out of the paper?
CRAWFORD: Yes. And I'm leery of running Lecktor's message without knowing what it says.
GRAHAM: And if we pull it, we lose a week. We only have two to the next full moon .
CRAWFORD: It's your call, Will. What do we Graham has to decide. Long pause. Then he looks up:
GRAHAM: Run it.
CRAWFORD: What if it encourages the Tooth Fairy to do something besides We will feel sick for a very long time.
GRAHAM: We will feel sick for a very long time.
GRAHAM: Who is it?
GRAHAM: What'd it say?
GRAHAM: Tell me now.
GRAHAM: Get me a plane.
GRAHAM: Get me a plane!
GRAHAM: I won't be here. On the move.
NIGHT: She's asleep. Kevin enters.
KEVIN: Mom. .. Kevin looks over her shoulder out the window as if he's scared of something.
MOLLY: What time is it?
KEVIN: Mom, someone's outside. There's noises .
MOLLY: starts and sits up.
MOLLY: moves into the kitchen. A streetlight hits part of the kitchen with a dim phosphorescent green.
MOLLY: ( whispers ) Go into your room and lock the door.
MOLLY: Go ahead! He catches Molly's eye:
MOLLY: breathless, opens the door. Fast.
DOOR: reveals Florida State TROOPER.
TROOPER: Are you all right, ma'am?
MOLLY: ( fast breathing ) Yes. Why? What's going on
DOOR: opens. Running down the stairs and across the tarmac is Will Graham in shirtsleeves with a Car-15 assault rifle with collapsible stock. His eyes scan the perimeter.
FBI MEN: moving fast, follow Graham. Their eyes sweep the terminal area. One carries an Uzi submachine gun, the other two, handguns.
HOUSE INTERIOR: Who decorated this place, Richard Molly takes a deep breath. Then lets it out. She's tired. Graham takes her hand.
MOLLY: Who decorated this place, Richard Molly takes a deep breath. Then lets it out. She's tired. Graham takes her hand.
GRAHAM: .sorry, Molly. I'm sorry this happened to you.
MOLLY: You didn't do it to me, Will; it's happened to us. And if I survive the wallpaper we'll be okay. He's after you now, isn't he? She didn't check to see that Kevin is our of earshot. Graham does.
GRAHAM: It's a precaution. Why don't you run down to the bay. They got a swimming float.
KEVIN: I'll hang around in here. I'll just be in the kitchen, Mom.
GRAHAM: ( to Molly ) What is he? Afraid to leave you alone with me now?' ( beat ) He read the Tattler piece, didn't He didn't know you had been in a mental institution. Be asked me if I knew. I said yes. I wanted to talk to him. He said he wanted to bring it up to you. Face to face .
MOLLY: He didn't know you had been in a mental institution. Be asked me if I knew. I said yes. I wanted to talk to him. He said he wanted to bring it up to you. Face to face .
GRAHAM: Good for him. Thanks a lot, Freddie! Kevin. We're going grocery shopping .
KEVIN: see about Mom?
GRAHAM: No one can find our where you are.
KEVIN: said you killed the guy in Minnesota and were in a mental hospital. Is it true?
GBAHAM: I was in the psychiatric wing. It bothers you, finding out I was in there. doesn't it?
KEVIN: I was in the psychiatric wing. It bothers you, finding out I was in there. doesn't it?
GRAHAM: I was in the psychiatric wing. It bothers you, finding out I was in there. doesn't it?
KEVIN: take care of Mom. And I'll do it. This guy wants to kill you?
GRAHAM: ( beat ) I was in the hospital after Garrett Jacob Hobbs.
KEVIN: ( beat ) I was in the hospital after Garrett Jacob Hobbs.
GRAHAM: ( beat ) I was in the hospital after Garrett Jacob Hobbs.
KEVIN: college girls and he killed them.
GRAHAM: college girls and he killed them.
KEVIN: ( MORE ) I found a curly piece of metal in the clothes of one of the girls. The kind of shred a pipe threader makes. I was taking a look at steam fitters, plumbers. It took a long time. In one place there was a resignation letter from a man named Hobbs. I saw it and it was.., peculiar. I was going up these stairs to Hobbs' apartment. I was halfway up when he shoved his wife down at me. She was dying. I sent the officer with me to call a SWAT team. But I could hear kids in there and screaming. I couldn't wait .
GRAHAM: ( MORE ) I found a curly piece of metal in the clothes of one of the girls. The kind of shred a pipe threader makes. I was taking a look at steam fitters, plumbers. It took a long time. In one place there was a resignation letter from a man named Hobbs. I saw it and it was.., peculiar. I was going up these stairs to Hobbs' apartment. I was halfway up when he shoved his wife down at me. She was dying. I sent the officer with me to call a SWAT team. But I could hear kids in there and screaming. I couldn't wait .
KEVIN: You went in the apartment?
GRAHAM: Yes. Hobbs had one of his daughters from behind. He was cutting her. I shot him. We get the feeling Graham is leaving out lots of pieces and gives Kevin only the bare bones of what he needs to know.
GRAHAM: I kept thinking there must be some way I could have handled it better. It kept replaying in my mind. Later I got depressed. A doctor friend of mine, Dr. Bloom, asked me to go into a hospital. After a while I got some distance on it and was okay.
KEVIN: Did the girl die?
GRAHAM: She got all right?
KEVIN: She got all right?
GRAHAM: .after a while.
KEVIN: And Hobbs died?
GRAHAM: ( nods ) . yes.
KEVIN: Killing somebody feels that bad?
GRAHAM: Kevin: it's the ugliest thing in the world. Kevin thinks about this for a long time. He nods. He feels he understands Graham and is closer to him for it:
KEVIN: What kind of coffee do you like?
GRAHAM: You like that Colombian stuff, don't Kevin reaches for the coffee and puts it in the basket.
KEVIN: You like that Colombian stuff, don't Kevin reaches for the coffee and puts it in the basket.
KEVIN: Mom likes that, too.
MOLLY: It's hard to have anything, isn't it? Rare to get it, hard to keep it. This is a damn slippery planet. When she said this she was staring out to sea. Now she turns to look at Graham and puts a hand on his arm. He still stares out to sea:
GRAHAM: Slick as hell. Then Graham looks at her and covers her hand with his own.
MOLLY: You remember when we first met? And were together alone in that room. And the exhilaration was too much to hold on to. And then something flickered across your face like a shadow and I asked you what was wrong?
GRAHAM: I remember.
MOLLY: Do you remember what you said?
GRAHAM: Yes. I said this is too good to live. Molly stares into his eyes.
MOLLY: Time is luck, Will. I know the value of our days. They stare into each other. There's a pause. They rise. She puts her arm around Graham's waist. They start towards the house.
MOLLY: Let's go to bed. I'll rub your back.
CRAWFORD: I need to talk to you about Will psychological nature.
BLOOM: psychological nature.
CRAWFORD: psychological nature.
BLOOM: study on him, I refused. Same goes for now.
CRAWFORD: on him.
BLOOM: on him.
CRAWFORD: on him.
BLOOM: Graham, are you? You're smooth about it, but you're never one-on- one with him. Why's that? Do you think he's psychic?
CRAWFORD: Graham, are you? You're smooth about it, but you're never one-on- one with him. Why's that? Do you think he's psychic?
BLOOM: total recall. But I don't think he's psychic. What he has it empathy and projection He can assume your point of view and mine.., and some other points of view that scare and sicken him.
CRAWFORD: concerned about him. And he'd pick up on that. He's fast. He hates being prodded and poked. So do I. What do you want?
BLOOM: concerned about him. And he'd pick up on that. He's fast. He hates being prodded and poked. So do I. What do you want?
CRAWFORD: Could he kill again if he had to save his life? Or would he hesitate?
BLOOM: I'll tell you the events. The psychology's none of your business. Hobbs was trying to cut his eleven- year-old daughter's throat. Graham shot him with his .38 six times. Hobbs still didn't go down. He had to wade in.
CRAWFORD: That's when it happened?
BLOOM: No. It happened when Graham went to see Hobbs' daughter four months later in the hospital. She saved her carotid artery.., but lost three fingers and her larynx. She was connected up to a voice box. When Graham went to see her, she asked him through the speaker: 'Why did you have to kill my daddy? ' That's when Graham had his nervous What's the bottom line?
CRAWFORD: What's the bottom line?
BLOOM: If he pushes too deep into our boy's mind-set, he may destroy himself. What are you planning, Jack?
CRAWFORD: Could he handle a direct contact?
BLOOM: I don't recommend it.
BLOOM: Crawford has a proposition. I don't think it's a good idea.
GRAHAM: If the Tooth Fairy listens to Lecktor, he'll come for me. So we're going to set me up as bait to draw him out. Give him a clean shot.
GXAHAM: I'll use Lounds. Now Bloom's surprised.
GRAHAM: Sidney, he doesn't read the "Sunday Times literary supplement. He reads Lounds in the "Tattler." And I want this over with. Fast.
GRAHAM: I believe he's socially maladjusted. Laughed at by his How does he rate compared to Dr, Hannibal Lecktor?
LOUNDS: How does he rate compared to Dr, Hannibal Lecktor?
GRAHAM: He's not as intelligent. PULL BACK to reveal Bloom, Crawford, a photographer and assistant. Graham motions for Lounds to turn off his tape recorder.
GRAHAM: ( to Bloom ) What have we missed?
BLOOM: He may have an unconscious homosexual conflict. A fear of being gay. He objects to the word 'fairy.' Plus smeared bloodstains indicate that he put the shorts on Charles Leeds after he was dead. I believe he did this to emphasize his lack of interest in Mr, Leeds. Graham motions Lounds to turn the tape recorder on again.
GRAHAM: The killer has sexually molested all his male victims. He is a homosexual and impotent with persons of the opposite sex. Our forensic psychologists have projected he may have been the product of an incestuous home life . And probably had sexual relations with his mother. Crawford stifles a laugh.
LOUNDS: How long will you stay in Until we've taken out the Tooth Graham gestures for Lounds to turn off the tape recorder.
GBAHAM: Until we've taken out the Tooth Graham gestures for Lounds to turn off the tape recorder.
GRAHAM: All right. Let's shoot the pictures .
LOUNDS: ( to Crawford ) I want shots with me and Graham together .
LOUNDS: C'mon, c'mon, c'mon. You want this to look real, don't you?
GRAHAM: Keep the motel sign across the street just slightly out of focus. He has to be able to read it, but it can't look too obvious. Lounds barks orders to the still photographer and splits. The photographer starts breaking down his gear. Crawford takes Graham aside.
CRAWFORD: ( low ) Asian studies at Langley said the mark you found on the tree is a Chinese character considered a positive or a lucky sign in gambling. The character also appears on a mah-jongg piece. ( beat ) It means Red Dragon. ( beat ) That mean anything to you?
GRAHAM: CUT TO:
SPURGEN: .if he's smart he'll approach from the front, pass, and take you from the back. How well do you Pretty well.
GRAHAM: Pretty well.
SPURGEN: I'm gonna spray your suit jackets. It'll be invisible in this light, but you'll stand out like a zebra for us. They told me you checked out a .44 Charter Arms Bulldog.
GI( AHAM: Yes .
SPURGEN: Good. You'll load these, Ever fire them? Spurgen hands Graham a glycine envelope containing 25 rounds of .44 Special ammunition.
GRAHAM: Glaser Safety Slugs?
SPURGEN: ( nods ) . commercially prohibited. ( beat ) Number Twelve shot in liquid Teflon in a copper casing. On impact it all opens up in the target. Expect the recoil. They're hot loads. Body armor?
GRAHAM: Kevlar Second Chance.
SPURGEN: I hope you have a second chance.
GRAHAM: Because he's gone for the head shot seven out of eight times'
SPURGEN: You got it.
GRAHAM: Let's walk the route. As they start across the parking lot:
DAY: We've been here before. The floor is empty. In the WIDE ANGLE OUT OF FOCUS the NEWSSTAND OPERATOR is squatted down reading the "Chicago Tribune." In the empty space is dumped a bundle of "Tattlers" A pair of black zippered boots enters and stands behind the man.
NEWSSTAND OPERATOR: ( without looking ) What is it?
NEWSSTAND OPERATOR: You'll have to wait until I bust a One black boot kicks the "Tattler" bundle.
NEWSSTAND OPERATOR: ( hot ) I said wait 'til I bust a bundle.
NEWSSTAND OPERATOR: Hey. Hey you. The retreating man turns to face him. It is Francis Yeah, you. Fuckin' told you.
DOLLARHYDE: NEWSSTAND OPERATOR Yeah, you. Fuckin' told you.
NEWSSTAND OPERATOR: Yeah, you. Fuckin' told you.
DOLLARHYDE: ( interrupting ) You told me what?
DOLLARHYDE: You told me what?!
NEWSSTAND OPERATOR: You got a quarter comin' back.
NIGHT: pulls into the prescribed space. It's raining. He kills the engine and gets out.
GRAHAM: . walking along the determined line, fifty yards from the apartment building.., hears something through the delicate patter of the rain.
GRAHAM'S: CORNER OF BUILDING HOLD. Then entering around the corner is a running MAN. He's 6'2". He's heavy and wears a running suit with the hood up. His face is lost in its shadow.
GRAHAM'S FACE: in anticipation. The foot beats are getting LOUDER.
GBAHAM'S EYES: like taut wire about to snap.
RUNNER: is knocked off balance and slams face forward into the side of a car. He comes off the car violently, to turn, to fight .
.44 BULLDOG: comes up.., pressure on the trigger.
RUNNER'S HEAD: turns INTO CAMERA. He is a black man with a moustache and scared eyes staring into the .44. His hands shoot into the
GRAHAM: ( re the mistake )
RUNNER: Arrest dat sucker.! Crawford catches up to Graham:
CRAWFORD: You okay? Graham shoulders past Crawford He throws the Kevlar vest across the parking lot. He almost killed the man. Meanwhile, Spurgen is with the Runner.
SPURGEN: It was a mistake . Sorry we.
RUNNER: 'Sorry' yo' mama!! Runner pissed off starts towards Graham. Spurgen stops
SPURGEN: Hold on! We thought you were someone we're trying to catch.
RUNNER: ( backs up ) Hold onto this!! ( grabs his groin ) I get dat cannon stuck up mah face?! Car dirt splattered up and down mah Calvin Kleins?! 'Catch somebody?!' You couldn't catch yo' ass with yo' right hand! You lucky you muther-fuckers catch a cold! Who the hell goin' pay my cleanin' bill? Huh?
SECRETARY: See you, Freddie.
LOUNDS: pleased with himself, walks to his car.
LOUNDS: Was I in an accident?
LOUNDS: My back hurts, my skin. Did I get burned? I hope to God I'm not burned.
LOUNDS: Let me lie down. Listen, I want to call my office. My God, I'm in a Stryker frame. My back's broken. Tell me the truth. Footsteps are going away.
LOUNDS: What am I doing here?
LOUNDS: I don't want to know.
LOUNDS: Yes .
LOUNDS: I'm very scared.
LOUNDS: Yes .
LOUNDS: I don't know.
LOUNDS: I'd do a big story. Anything you want to say. Describe you any way you want or no description! The hand rips off the sanitary napkins covering Lounds' eyes. Lounds jams his eyes shut. The lights brighten. A single finger taps the top of his head.
LOUNDS: No. I don't want to see you.
LOUNDS: turns away. The shape of Dollarhyde passes behind his head. The kimono is on again.
DOLLARHYDE: Look at the screen. That is William Blake's 'The Great Red Dragon and The Woman Clothed with the Sun. Do you see?
LOUNDS: Yes . Next picture: Mrs. Jacobi, eyes wide.
DOLLARHME: Do you see?
LOUNDS: Yes . CLICK. Next slide. Mrs. Leeds alive, locked into a silent scream in her bedroom.
DOLLARHYDE: Do you see?
LOUNDS: staring in horror. We will not see the rest of the slider.
LOUNDS: staring in horror. We will not see the rest of the slider.
DOLLARHYDE: Mrs. Leeds harlequined with blood, her husband beside her. Do you see?
LOUNDS: Yes .
DOLLARHYDE: Mrs. Jacobi after her changing. The Dragon rampant. Do you see?
LOUNDS: Yes .
DOLLARHYDE: Freddie Lounds. Your photograph. Do you see?
LOUNDS: Oh, God.
DOLLARHYDE: Do you see?
LOUNDS: Please, no.
DOLLARHYDE: 'No' what?
LOUNDS: Not me.
DOLLARHYDE: Are you a man?
LOUNDS: Do you imply that I'm a queer?
DOLLARHYDE: Do you imply that I'm a queer?
LOUNDS: God, no.
DOLLARHYI )E: Are you queer, Mr. Lounds?
LOUNDS: REAR OF DOLLARHYDE'S HEAD Beyond him is the screen and the image of Freddie Lounds with Graham's arm over his shoulder.
DOLLARHYDE: Before me you are a slug in the sun. You are privy to a great becoming and you recognize nothing. You are an ant in the afterbirth. It is your nature to do only one thing correctly: tremble. Bur fear is not what you owe me. Lounds: you and the others, YOU OWE ME AWE! We have one more piece of work to do. Dollarhyde leaves. Lounds closes his eyes.
LOUNDS: ( to himself ) Didn't take off the mask. Please, God, let him not take off the mask. If he comes back with it off, I'm dead.
DOLLARHME'S HAND: carries a tape recorder. We PAN it across the room to Lounds' face .
DOLLARHYDE: Now you will read this into the tape recorder.
ON LOUNDS: 'I have had a great privilege. I have seen with wonder the strength of the Red Dragon. All I wrote about him before was lies from Will Graham. He made me write them. Now I understand. 'Will Graham: you will learn from my own lips how much you have to dread. Because I was forced to lie, he will be more merciful to me than to you. 'I will be a testament to the truth, now. About his work. About his becoming.'
LOUNDS: 'I have had a great privilege. I have seen with wonder the strength of the Red Dragon. All I wrote about him before was lies from Will Graham. He made me write them. Now I understand. 'Will Graham: you will learn from my own lips how much you have to dread. Because I was forced to lie, he will be more merciful to me than to you. 'I will be a testament to the truth, now. About his work. About his becoming.'
DOLLARHYDE'S HAND: You did very well. I apologize for the crude images. Next time I'll have film stock that doesn't need lights .
DOLLARHYDE: You did very well. I apologize for the crude images. Next time I'll have film stock that doesn't need lights .
LOUNDS: You'll let me go now?
DOLLARHYDE: You will tell the truth?
LOUNDS: Good . We'll seal your promise with.
DOLLARHYDE: Good . We'll seal your promise with.
DOLLARHYDE'S FACE,: with the stocking rolled down over his nose, smiles his dentured smile. And with his kimono open, revealing the face of the dragon emblazoned in crimson on his muscular torso; he leans INTO CAMERA.
DOLLARHYDE: . with a kiss.
LOUNDS: Go 'head and kill 'ee, you 'astard! You rot in 'ell. rot in 'ell!
PARKING ATTENDANT: reads. Now the wheels SQUEAK and ECHO LOUDER. His head raises again.
MOLLY: Can I have one of your cigarettes?
GRAHAM: ( surprised ) You haven't smoked in two years.
MOLLY: I'd like one of your cigarettes, Graham gives her one. Molly lights up. She picks a piece or tobacco from her lips. She's trying to control fear.
MOLLY: Have you ever omitted telling me. things before?
GRAHAM: Then why?
MOLLY: Then why?
GRAHAM: I wanted it over fast. It felt dirty to not tell you.
MOLLY: Can you quit?
GRAHAM: And. where are things?
MOLLY: And. where are things?
GRAHAM: Where we're at is nowhere. We have nothing. We're running out of time. There is a long pause. Molly suspects:
MOLLY: What will you do?
GRAHAM: I have to go back to Birmingham.
MOLLY: Is Crawford going with you?
GRAHAM: No. I have to be. in there. alone. Maybe there's something for me if I know how he feels and thinks.
MOLLY: William: you are going to make yourself Sick or get yourself killed. Graham says nothing.
MOLLY: Kevin and I have lived through. with Kevin's father. once before. and we can't. She can't finish. There's a pause. Then: She looks at him.
GRAHAM: You should go to Montana. Stay with Kevin's grandparents. They haven't seen him for a while. I'll come and get you afterwards.
MOLLY: He shakes his head and locks away from her, wondering about They are both frozen: in the same room but very separate. Molly's eyes are moist. She gets up and leaves. Graham sits at the kitchen table by himself, both hands around his mug of coffee. Slowly, deliberately, he picks up the mug to take a sip. Then he sits alone in the kitchen.
GRAHAM: ( pause ) I love you. And I'm not really going to be fit to be with for
GBAHAM: Sidney: I don't understand him. We know he re-arranges the kids and husbands into a dead audience. To witness the act. We know he thinks the act is making him into something different. His 'becoming' .but I don't know what it is he thinks he's becoming. The answer is something to do with how he uses the mirrors. That's what's missing for me. why the The usual motivation doesn't apply to him, nor the way he uses them. I don't have an answer for you. Listen to me, my friend: leave this.
GRAHAM: And do what? Read about the next family in the morning paper? In my Monkey Ward safehouse 'cause I can't take my family home? This ends when I make it over.
GRAHAM: Kevin and Molly are on their way to Montana. Who the hell is he to do this to my family, Sidney? Answer me that.! Sidney Bloom has no answer.
AFTERNOON: Outside is gray. Rain stripes the glass. Sheets of rain whip across the silver planes and yellow utility vehicles.
GRAHAM: I'm sorry, too.
WAITRESS: Excuse me.? Graham turns. The WAITRESS looks at him strangely.
GRAHAM: Coffee . She leaves. Graham sits. He stares at his handprint and says :
GRAHAM: It's just YOU and me now, sport. And I'd better hurry up and find you. Because I'm losing all this.
DOLLARHYDE: Ms. McClain, I'm Francis Dollarhyde. I came about the low light level infrared film stock.
REBA: Shooting at maybe eight feet. I can't use any lights.
DOLLARHYDE: Shooting at maybe eight feet. I can't use any lights.
REBA: What's being photographed?
DOLLARHYDE: The activities of nocturnal animals.
REBA: When do you need it?
DOLLARHYDE: In eight days.
REBA: Let me stick this in the black hole. We see some movements. Then the light comes on.
DOLLARHYDE'S: hand is curled under his nose, hiding his Z-plast scars. Then he reacts to something. His face lights up in an uncharacteristically open smile.
REBA: The 1000 C Infrared Sensitive Film must be handled in total darkness. I keep the samples straight by touch code . It's still easier to handle than a 1200 series. Think it'll do?
DOLLARHYDE: It'll do fine.
RALPH DANDRIDGE,: young manager of the department enters, checks watch.
DANDRIDGE: Reba, dear, I've got to fly. Mr. Dollarhyde, if it wouldn't be too much trouble could you help her home ?
REBA: I can 'help' myself home, Ralph. Dandridge leaves. Dollarhyde stares after him. He doesn't Like him. Then:
DOLLARHYDE: I'LL take you.
BEBA: ( standing close ) No, thanks. I manage very well. ( beat ) I'LL order you twelve hundred feet: of 1000 C tomorrow.
DOLLARHYDE: Ride with me.
REBA: Thanks, but I'll take the bus. I do it all the time.
DOLLARHYDE: Dandridge is a condescending prick. Ride with me. It would be because I want you to. Reba stops. She likes Dollarhyde's directness. He gets our and comes around to help her in. He starts to take her arm.
REBA: It's better if I rake your arm.
REBA: Come on in. How about a gin and tonic?
DOLLARHYDE: Tonic will be fine.
REBA: In the kitchen.
DOLLARHYDE: How did you come to Gateway?
BEBA: They had to shape up their employment practices to keep this defense Reba takes a l0-inch chef's knife and deftly cuts the lime, guiding it with her thumb.
DOLLARHYDE: You worked out well.
REBA: You know you speak very well, although you avoid fricatives and sibilants in your speech. At the Riker Institute for the Blind. I trained in speech therapy for speech and hearing impaired children.
DOLLARHYDE: reacts to "speech therapy." Characteristically his attention goes to:
KNIFE: in Reba's hand. Its extremely sharp cutting edge glints in the light. Another slice of lime falls.
REBA: I'll probably go back to it someday.
DOLLARHYDE: Silence. Reba hands him his drink.
REBA: May I touch your face? I want to know if you're smiling or frowning. I want to know if I should just shut up or not. There's a smile on her face. Now her hand moves up towards Dollarhyde's mouth with the Z-plast scars where his harelip and cleft palate were fixed.
DOLLARHYDE: turns her hand in the light.
DOLLARHYDE: Take my word for it that I'm. smiling . There is no smile on Dollarhyde's face.
RZBA: If I've offended you, I didn't mean to. He still has her hand in his grasp.
DOLLARHYDE: I have to go now. He lets go of her hand.
REBA: Ready to tell me what kind of 'outing' this is?
DOLLARHYDE: It's a surprise. Her head arcs back as she senses:
REBA: Francis? We're at the zoo.!
DR. WARFIELD: In two days we're going to cap his tooth. Can you smell him?
REBA: ( aglow ) Are you apprehensive? Your protective and muscular gentleman over there is watching us like a cat.
DR. WARFIELD: Are you apprehensive? Your protective and muscular gentleman over there is watching us like a cat.
REBA: No, no! I want to. Dollarhyde reacts with a light smile at the compliment.
DR. WARFIELD: All right, put your left hand on the edge of the table and you can explore with your right. I'll be right here beside you. We see Reba start to reach out. Then we see what she is about to touch.
REBA'S HAND: The fur springs between her fingers.
TIGER'S HEAD: Reba's hand gently touches the tiger's ears and both hands feel the width of his head.
TIGER'S MOUTH: The hot breath coming across its rough tongue stirs the hairs on her forearms.
TIGER'S CHEST: Reba's arms wrap around the huge chest. Slowly her face lowers and she puts her ear next to the tiger's ribs. Reba's ecstatic. We hear what she hears: the HEARTBEAT. It fills us and Reba with its bright thunder.
REBA: ( beat ) That was nice of you to think of that.
DOLLARKYDE: I made you a gin and tonic. It's by the side of the sofa. Dollarhyde looks at Reba. Then he looks at the film. The two of them are like a tableau of suburban TV-watching. They're like a married couple sitting on the sofa. Except:
REBA: unknowing, is suffused with a calm equanimity. Her breasts rise and fall with her breathing. The flickering light from the screen intermittently illuminates and darkens the planes of her face.
DOLLARHYDE: is watching her pulse rise and fall under the soft skin and doesn't see:
REBA'S HAND: moves towards Dollarhyde's face.
REBA: moves towards Dollarhyde's face.
REBA: ( soft whisper ) Take me upstairs.
DOLLARHME: wide awake, eases her away. Then he puts his ear to her breast and listens to her heart beating. Dollarhyde is re- lieved. Then Dollarhyde touches her gently, softly in wonder and amazement. Then Dollarhyde leaves.
REBA: Dollarhyde re-enters FRAME and puts a glass of water next to her. He covers her. He lays down again next to her. Reba stirs half awake, murmurs dreamily. Dollarhyde supports the back of her head and offers her some water.
DOLLARHYDE: Yes, are you okay.?!
REBA: In her cotton dress. The prairie wind blows her hair and presses the thin cotton against her body in the overgrown weeds and wildflowers of Dollarhyde's backyard.
DOLLARHYDE: nears her, towers above her. He touches her face. Reba folds into his arms and lays her head on his hard chest. His heart is going fast. He doesn't believe this fine thing is happen- ing to him and that she's okay.
REBA: Good morning. If you show me where things are, I'll make us some coffee.
DOLLARHYDE: No! Don't go back into the house.
REBA: My sister's coming by to pick me up for brunch. Why don't you come, too?
DOLLARHYDE: I have work to do at the plant.
REBA: I'll get my purse.
DOLLARHYDE: I'll get it. Stay right here. You lock very good in the sun.
DOLLARHYDE: Do you want a Coke or something, Reba?
REBA: I'm fine, Francis. Dollarhyde gets out.
DOLLARHYDE: Fill it up and check the oil, please. Dollarhyde crosses to the men's room. After placing the nozzle in the gas tank the ATTENDANT bangs open the hood, draws the dipstick, grabs a can of 10-40, jams the oil spout into the can and sticks the spout into the engine. As he starts to move around the van he sees something in the interior and stops. A smile dawns on his face. We don't know what he sees. He starts wiping the windshield. He wipes and wipes the same spot.
REBA'S: dress is just above her knees. She sits on the high seat. Her legs are crossed. Her white cane lays between the seats. From his lower angle at the van window the Attendant can look up her dress. He bends down a little to see better.
DRIVER'S WINDOW: Dollarhyde appears. As he starts to reach for his wallet on the dash, he sees what the Attendant's doing.
ATTENDANT: unaware of Dollarhyde is grinning and still wiping the same spot in front of Reba.
DOLLARHYDE: is coming around the van. Fast.
DOLLARHYDE: You sonofabitch.
ATTENDANT: ( cocky ) You don't like it? You know what you can do about it.
REBA'S FACE: through the windshield. She's trying to find the handle to roll down the window.
ATTENDANT: is white. There is something in Dollarhyde's face that he has never seen before, anywhere.
DOLLARHYDE: pulls the spout from the oil can that was in his engine. He advances on the frozen Attendant. He looks at the sharp end of the spout.
ATTENDANT: is wide-eyed. Dollarhyde's big hand ENTERS and flattens the man into the wall, compressing his thorax.
DOLLARHYDE: I ought to jam this in your chest, and drain your heart. The Attendant tries to say he's sorry, but he can't talk. Dollarhyde's hand has grabbed his face. He hesitates. Then he throws money at the Attendant and leaves.
GRAHAM: I arranged for him to have a phone. I have to call him in a few minutes.
GRAHAM: What's it narrow down to?
GRAHAM: ( laughs ) That's narrow?
GRAHAM: When I'm done. Graham hangs up the phone. He looks out the window at the rain. He dials again.
GRAHAM: It's Will Graham. Is Molly there, Mr. Swenson?
GRAHAM: Sure he is. Blond. Probably Scandinavian, too.
GRAHAM: Yes. Is Molly there?
GRAHAM: I know. 'Out in the good air.'
GRAHAM: Tell her I called. Graham hangs up. He dials again.
GPAHAM: This is Will Graham. Dr. Chilton arranged for me to talk with Dr. Lecktor .
LECXTOR: I wanted to congratulate you for the job you did on Mr. Lounds. I admired it enormously. What a cunning boy you are. Will.
GRAHAM: What do you want?
LECKTOR: You know Lounds's enlightened me on one thing: your confinement in the mental hospital. My attorney should have brought that our in court.
GRAHAM: I'm worn out with you crazy sons-of- bitches. If you've got something to say, Lecktor, say it.
LECKTOR: I want to help you, Will. You'd be more comfortable if you relaxed with yourself. We don't invent our natures, They're issued to us. Along with our lungs and pancreas and everything else. Why fight it?
GRAHAM: Fight what?
LECKTOR: When you were so depressed after you shot Mr. Garrett Jacob Hobbs to death, it wasn't the act that got you down. Didn't you really feel so bad because killing him felt so And why shouldn't it feel good?! It must feel good to God. God does it all the time! Graham laughs. Then he starts to listen closely. There is something here for him:
GRAHAM: I don't believe in God.
LECKTOR: You should, Will. God's terrific! He dropped a church roof on thirty- four of His worshippers in Texas last Wednesday night. Just as they were grovelling to Him and singing a hymn. Don't you think that felt good? He wouldn't begrudge you two measly Why does it feel good?
GRAHAM: Why does it feel good?
LECKTOR: It feels good because: if you do as God does, enough times, you become as God is: powerful. Will Graham thinks about this.
LECKTOR: ( fading ) God's a champ! He got a hundred and sixty Philippines in one plane crash two months ago. Remember the big earthquake in Italy last spring.?
CRAHAM: I see you there. I breathe in the perfume of this room. I am in the inner sanctum of a life. You will accept me. Take me into you.
DAY: It is pitch-black. In the green safe light we make our the rollers and pulleys carrying film through the vats of D76 developer and fixer. It is mechanized. There is no one to maintain it. Distantly on the floor in a far corner we perceive the shape of a man and reddish glow. The CAMERA STARTS MOVING towards the shape on the floor. As we get closer we realize it's Dollarhyde. Something is wrong with him. ..
DOLLARHYDE: RED DRAGON ( O.S. )
DOLLARHYDE: By now we're close to his body curled up on the floor in the sanctuary of the developing room. The red glow emanates from beneath Dollarhyde's shirt.
DOLLARHYDE: I want her! I want her alive. I'm going to keep her! YOU HEAR
ME!!!: He starts throwing bottles of chemicals across the room. They form a moire pattern of colors on walls. Some splash on him and make his shirt smoke.
PHONE: Dollarhyde's unsteady hand takes it off the wall. Be pours sweat. If the acid that makes his shirt smoke burns him, he doesn't acknowledge it. He punches four numbers.
DOLLARHYDE: Reba .
DOLLARHYDE: The developing room. I need to. see you.
DOLLARHYDE: ( into phone ) No. Reba.?
DOLLARHYDE: ( into phone; getting control ) I'll see you later. All right?
DOLLARHYDE: ( into phone ) Yes .
NIGHT: He sits under the tree with the lights out. He is waiting. Watching. He looks at his watch. Then he hears a car approach and looks up.
DANDRIDGE: There's something on your face. He brushes at a speck of dust on Reba's cheek.
PADDED DASH: His fingers pop through the vinyl, gouging deep furrows. We hear hyperventilating.
REBA: What was it?
DANDRIDGE: Pollen .
REBA: Thanks for the ride.
DANDRIDGE: See you tomorrow. Reba walks into her apartment
RALPH DANDRIDGE: ing past the hedges. An arm shoots out and turns Dandridge. Dollarhyde's hand clutches the whole of Dandridge's lower face from underneath his jaw. He starts crushing Dandridge's face. THREE soft POPS are from Dollarhyde's nine millimeter. He shot Dandridge three times in the heart.
REBA: Who is it?
REBA: DOLLARHYDE ( O.S. ) Francis.. .?
REBA: Francis.. .? She opens the door and smiles.
THE MOON: It's full and very large as it dawns over black water that seems to ripple and be drawn to it. PULL BACK to reveal we are:
GRAHAM: He changes them into beings that accept him. And he needs to see the acceptance, In the mirrors. I didn't understand the mirrors It's very important.
CRAWFORD: It's a word. Killing them. His delusion is: if he sees himself accepted enough times, he will become as one who has the power to be accepted all the time. And he would record it somehow. So he can see himself received over and over again.
GRAHAM: It's a word. Killing them. His delusion is: if he sees himself accepted enough times, he will become as one who has the power to be accepted all the time. And he would record it somehow. So he can see himself received over and over again.
CRAWFORD: VTR, film, Polaroid, stills, what?
GRAHAM: How do I know?! Graham is intent on the tape. Then:
GRAHAM: He's very careful, very. designed when he chooses, If we find out how he finds them, then we'll find him.
CRAWFORD: There's no connection between the There has to be.
GRAHAM: There has to be.
CRAWFORD: ( exasperated ) There is none! We've run it through the computer a dozen times .
GRAHAM: ( suddenly calm ) He's a very shy boy.
CRAWFORD: Something Lecktor said.
GRAHAM: Something Lecktor said.
CRAWFORD: Let's admit we struck out this month. The Gulf Stream's standing by. The basic lab stuff is on it. You, Zeller, Jimmie Price, a photographer. Anywhere he hits, we can be there in an hour and fifteen minutes. We get the call, we roll. The scene'll be very fresh. ..
GRAHAM: It's not over yet.
CRAWFORD: It's a foregone conclusion. For Christ's sake, it's eleven PM. The full moon is tonight. Graham doesn't answer. He's totally concentrated on the TV MONITOR: JACOBI FAMILY Donald Jacobi, big birthday card to the camera. It says: "Happy Birthday - Follow the ribbon." Camera follows Donald Jacobi following the ribbon into the basement and the flood- lights reveal a ten-speed bicycle.
CRAWFORD: ( explodes ) You wanna watch this or what?!
GRAHAM: ( explodes ) You wanna watch this or what?!
GRAHAM: That's why the boltcutter.
CRAWFORD: What's that?
GRAHAM: He used a boltcutter to trim the branch out of his way. When he was watching from the woods. Why didn't he use it to go through the basement door?
CRAWFORD: Because a steel door and deadbolt were there when they were killed.
GRAHAM: You mean Jacobi put it in between when this film was made and when he was murdered?
CRAWFORD: He had to. Graham rifles through the files and comes up with the autopsy report on Donald Jacobi.
GRAHAM: Donald Jacobi's eleventh birthday party was April fourteenth. Sometime between April fourteenth and May third they changed the But you can't see either family's door from the street. He wouldn't know until he got to the house that the padlock wasn't there anymore. He freezes the Jacobi tape and loads and plays the Leeds tape :
GRAHAM: ( intently on the screen ) From the alley he couldn't have seen the glass in the Leeds' kitchen door .
CRAWFORD: It's getting late and.
GRAHAM: ( explodes ) Don't talk to me!!
GRAHAM: It's Graham. The Jacobi stuff is still in the storeroom?
GRAHAM: Have one of the guards down there call me.
GRAHAM: Do it. He hangs up on Metcalfe.
VTR MONITORS: Graham's hand freezes the Leeds' rape and plays the Jacobi tape. The Jacobis' cat moves, jumps on the table.
GRAHAM: ( to himself ) You knew that was the Jacobis' cat .
GRAHAM: ( to himself ) You brought a boltcutter. 'cause you thought there was a padlock.
GRAHAM: ( to himself ) And the Leeds' dog doesn't have a collar. But you know it's the Leeds' dog, don't you, my man?!
GRAHAM: ( to himself ) See the woman?
GRAHAM: The bloom on the woman. You can almost feel her. You can see her again and again. Anytime you want. The doggy doesn't have a collar. But you know the Leeds' dog, don't And you know the Jacobi cat. And the padlock on the door and you know you need a boltcutter and every other goddamn thing 'cause.
CRAWFORD: It's the guard in the storeroom.
GRAHAM: ( to Crawford ) We want the cans the Jacobi home movies came in. ( beat ) They're in the far corner of the room under the windows.
CRAWFORD: ( into phone ) There's some film cans in the far corner of the room underneath one of the windows.
CRAWFORD: He found them. Graham pushes aside the videotape sleeve and picks up the Leeds' home-movie can.
GRAHAM: ( reads label ) What it's going to say on the Jacobi film can is the same as it says on the Leeds' film can: Gateway Lab, St. Louis, Missouri.
CRAWFORD: ( into phone ) Is there a label on the Jacobi can that says what lab processed it?
CRAWFORD: ( to Graham ) No. It's Bob's Photo Store in.
GRAHAM: Have him peel the top label back.
CRAWPORD: ( into phone ) See if there's another label
GRAHAM: It does, doesn't it?
CRAWFORD: ( punches another number ) I want a chopper on the roof in three minutes. To Meigs Field. ( bear ) At Meigs have them warn up and flight-prep the Gulf Stream.
REBA: . You're scaring me with this. There's no answer. We don't know if there's anyone else in the room.
REBA: ( searching ). Am I alone in this room? Are you ( shrill ) Why are you doing this?!
REBA: The Tooth. In a flash Dollarhyde grips her mouth, shutting off the Think carefully and answer His arm exits FRAME.
REBA: It's Dragon. Dragon. Red Dragon.
DOLLARHYDE: Now you know how the Dragon INT. GULF STREAM - ELECTRICIAN - NIGHT Try it.
TECHNICIAN: Try it.
CRAWFORD: ( into radio phone ) This is Jack Crawford, FBI. Who am I speaking to?
CRAWFORD: ( into phone ) All we know is this man owns a van and he works at Gateway. We have physical characteristics.
GRAHAM: Parking permits.
CRAWFORD: ( into phone ) Are your parking permits in the computer? He drives a van.
CRAWFORD: ( into phone ) Start feeding me names.
LT. FISK: ( into phone ) No. Brown eyes, black hair.
GRAHAM: ( to Crawford ) ( into phone ) Next .
CRAWFORD: ( into phone ) Next .
LT, FISK: ( into phone; to Graham ) No. 36 years old. Black.
PILOT: ( into PA ) Could you fasten your seat belts. We're on our final approach.
GRAHAM: ( into phone ) Put it through the datafax. Fast.
DATAFAX: starts printing our line by line: a blow-up of a driver's license with picture. The lines compose hair, forehead, eyes. coming at us line by line is: Francis Dollarhyde.
GRAHAM: ( into phone to Route three, Chester, Missouri. Where is that?
CRAWFORD: ( to Graham ) Fogel has four more names. He knows two: both dark hair. Third's a woman. Fourth's a handicapped parking permit.
GRAHAM: ( re Dollarhyde ) This is our boy.!
DOLLARHYDE: stands four feet from her, just staring. Then he walks from the room.
DOLLARHYDE'S: forearm destroys the glass shower door. He rips the metal frame from the walls. He snaps the mitred framework. The aluminum frame members have sharp 45 degree points. He takes them and the shards of mirror and leaves for the kitchen. Throughout his face has been expressionless.
OFFICER: Meet point's up ahead!
GRAHAM: Go on to the house.
OFFICER: Lt. Fisk said.
GRAHAM: Go on to the house. He obeys Graham and floors it. Graham puts his black plastic briefcase on his lap and extracts the .44 Charter Arms Bulldog. He starts to load 6 matte-black, blunt-nosed Glaser Safety Slugs. He fumbles them in the swaying car. The bullets fall to the floor.
CAR FLOOR: Glaser Safety Slugs roll on the rubber matting. Graham's fingers enter and pick them up. We FOLLOW the rounds as they slip into the cylinder.
CRAWFORD: ( sharp ) You're not going to need that. Because we're going in careful and slow and secure a perimeter and a St. Louis PD Swat team is going to take him. Not us.
CRAWFORD: ( sharp ) You're not going to need that. Because we're going in careful and slow and secure a perimeter and a St. Louis PD Swat team is going to take him. Not us.
GRAHAM: ( sharp ) You're not going to need that. Because we're going in careful and slow and secure a perimeter and a St. Louis PD Swat team is going to take him. Not us.
CRAWFORD: You're not going to need that. Because we're going in careful and slow and secure a perimeter and a St. Louis PD Swat team is going to take him. Not us.
TIRES: spray the gumbo mud out of the furrows. The forward momentum of the car slows until it completely stops. The tires spin and dig in.
GRAHAM: spills out and starts running for the house and the orchard a quarter mile away. Crawford follows.
CRAWFORD: ( into radio ) Get the roadblocks set on Route Three! There's an access road to the back of the house. That ought to be a second team's approach. Will Graham and I are in an orchard due west of the house.
GRAHAM: How far away's the back-up?
CRAWFORD: Three minutes. Graham gestures Crawford to a position with a front 3/4 view of the house.
GRAHAM: I'll cover the back.
CRAWFORD: Stay in the trees. As we TRACK with Graham through the trees towards the back, beyond him we see the side yard and the side windows moving past. The windows are large. At the back like a ramp are two storm cellar doors.
GRAHAM: ( resigned whisper into radio ) There's somebody in the house, Jack
GRAHAM: ( whispers in radio ) It's happening again, Jack.
GRAHAM: ( low ) . stop it.
GRAHAM: ( roars )
STOP IT!!!: Dollarhyde turns to the window in time to see:
DOLLARHYDE: catching Graham's momentum throws him across the room.
GRAHAM: CRASHES off the fridge which opens and spills and hits the floor as.
DOLLARHYDE: ROARS and grabs his 9mm from the kitchen table.
GRAHAM'S FACE: is lacerated from the glass. He sees his own blood on the floor. He struggles to rise. The first thing up is the big bore of the .44. It FIRES as if it had its own mind.
DOLLARHYDE'S: left shoulder EXPLODES.
GRAHAM: bleeding, brings the .44 down from the recoil of the first shot. Now, up on one knee, he FIRES FOUR more rounds into Dollarhyde.
GRAHAM: ( into phone ) I was out in the garden. Mama came out and told me when she saw it on TV. Why didn't you call me?
MOLLY: I was out in the garden. Mama came out and told me when she saw it on TV. Why didn't you call me?
GRAHAM: Mama was probably asleep.
MOLLY: Will? Are you okay?
GRAHAM: Not too bad. I'll be here a few days longer. I want to see you.
MOLLY: I want to see you, too.
GRAHAM: Today's Wednesday. By Friday I ought to.
MOLLY: Mama has all Kevin's uncles and aunts coming down from Cheyenne next week and.
GRAHAM: Come home with me.
MOLLY: Will, they never get to see Kevin and a few more days.
GRAHAM: What's this Mama shit?
MOLLY: It's what Kevin called her when he was little.
GRAHAM: What's the problem, Molly?
MOLLY: ( pause ) I came up here after Kevin's father died . ( beat ) They were very supportive and helped me adjust. I got myself together. I've gotten myself together now, too.
GRAHAM: Small difference: I'm not dead, yet .
MOLLY: ( no response ) You could come up here.
GRAHAM: They don't want me up there. Every time they look at me I remind them. If they thought about it, they'd want you. Bur all they really want's the boy. And they'll take you. But they don't want to see me.
MOLLY: That's not true.
GRAHAM: Okay. They're full of shit and they make me sick. Then no one says anything.
MOLLY: Maybe we should give it some time.
GRAHAM: Yeah. That's great. A little I tell you what, buckaroo. See you around. Graham slams down the phone. Still half-immersed in a psychotic landscape of the mind, Graham's psyche resonates with echoes of Dollarhyde. Now he gets up and walks out of the room leaving the door open. Outside is only the deserted parking lot.
DRIVER: Twenty-three twenty-six..- Twenty- three twenty-eight. Here you go.
SHERMAN: ( to son ) Cut out the basketball and go back to the algebra,
TINA: I'll get it.
DOOR: Tina opens it.
TINA: GEORGE SHEBMAN runs to the door. In a WIDER SHOT, we see there is a sho- gun resting inside the door jamb. It's within reach or Sherman's hand. We see why Tina Sherman screamed:
GEORGE SHEBMAN: runs to the door. In a WIDER SHOT, we see there is a sho- gun resting inside the door jamb. It's within reach or Sherman's hand. We see why Tina Sherman screamed:
SHERMAN: What do you want?
GRAHAM: Are you George Sherman?
SHERMAN: Yes. Who are you?
GRAHAEI: My name's Will Graham. I.
SXERMAN: ( suddenly realizing Oh, Jesus. Come in. ( to wife )
GRAHAM: No, that's okay. How are you? There's a searching look on Graham's face. Totally strange.
SHERMAN: We're fine. Fine. We're all well. We're okay! That man, Crawford, called and. told me. . how 'bout a drink? Coffee or No, I'm okay. I just wanted to. . stop by and.
GRAHAM: No, I'm okay. I just wanted to. . stop by and.
SHERMAN: I can't thank you enough, I.., Graham shakes his head. He doesn't want to be thanked. No one knows what to say. Graham looks at them:
SHERMAN FAMILY: are normal human beings living their lives. To Graham they are very special: they are alive.
GRAHAM: I just wanted to stop by and. see you. I guess. That's all. Graham stands there as if engraving each one in his memory. Then he nods. Then he leaves.
GEORGE SHERMAN: closes the door. There's an awkward look on his face. He didn't get to say what he wanted to say to Graham.
GRAHAM: stands as she comes near him. The aqua highlights of the water eat into their figures as they look at each other. Molly touches the wounded side of his face. Then:
MOLLY: Let's forget who said what to whom.
GRAHAM: You got a deal. Graham takes Molly's hand.
WATER'S EDGE: Molly and Graham walk to the water's edge and look out to sea. The highlights burn out sections of the two people.
MOLLY: So how'd we do.? Graham looks at her. He touches the side of her cheek and her hair. She pushes against his hand with her face to make closer contact.
GRAHAM: We did okay. Most of them made it.
THE END: Writers : Thomas Harris Michael Mann
