BLACK: Some microphone feedback followed by:
NOT: You think that feathering 'S easy? true. Takes a very well p wrist action. CHUCKLES from the crowd.
HIM: What he was, was John, and we loved for it.
AN: Taken r. Sebastian. up l ^a nï¿½ghte Sebastian turns the camera on himself, holds Sharpie pen, smiles.
JOHN: ( to CAMERA, which is
SEBASTIAN ): People are staring at me - is my fly No, no, it's cool.
SEBASTIAN: No, no, it's cool.
JOHN: All right, enough with the - ( as he gets another giggle ) - all right, what? What are you looking at?
SEBASTIAN: Oh, wait, there's something on your John brushes it.
JOHN: ( DUBIOUS )
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, it musta had some sap on it. They pass a cluster of CO EDS who laugh at John.
SEBASTIAN: ( ON TAPE )
JOHN: Turn it off. And as he REACHES for it - WHAM'. He hits another car! The camera goes flying. Fumbles. SCREAMS. YELLS.
SEBASTIAN: They're okay! They're getting out. Sebastian manages to right the CAMERA and unsteadily films John getting out of the car, heading towards the car he hit. The passenger door opens and Jenny comes out. She's covered in frosting and the remains of a birthday cake which she was carrying in her lap. The damaged car is full of balloons.
JENNY: Are you a complete idiot?!
JOHN: How do I get vou?
JENNY: I'm serious. In what world does a guy like me get someone like you?
JOHN: I'm serious. In what world does a guy like me get someone like you?
JENNY: Are you kidding? ( leans on him ) You're part of the plan.
JOHN: The plan.
JENNY: Step one. Meet an incredibly sweet, smart, sexy guy.
JOHN: Done. Step two?
JENNY: Marry him.
JOHN: Check. Step three? She smiles, puts her face right up to his.
JENNY: Now that one's a surprise.
JENNY: You okay?
JOHN: Oh yeah.
JENNY: You know you got this.
JOHN: I know, I got it.
JENNY: Who are you?
JOHN: I'm John Grogan.
JENNY: Wrong. You're John Friggin Grogan who's about to get a job. She leans over and gives him a big, long kiss.
JOHN: Um, okay, see now I don't wanna get out of the car.
JENNY: i really just wanna sit here and make out with you.
JOHNÂ€”: i really just wanna sit here and make out with you.
JOHN: i really just wanna sit here and make out with you.
JENNY: Get out of the car. He nods, starts to get out, then pauses.
JOHN: Who am i again?
JOHN: Yes, sir, I got a Mitchy. ( off Arnie's look )
ARNIE: A Mitchy. Min-hmm. So, tell me, why did you want to leave the estimable - ( he flips to a story, reads
JOHN: Well, as you know, Sebastian and I were in college together, and he was always talking about South Florida. mostly about the women of South Florida, but anyway, after my wife and I got married we thought it might be nice to come
DOWN HERE: For the women?
ARNIE: For the women?
JOHN: Uh, no for the. the. uh.
ARNIE: For the work?
JOHN: Yes. That.
ARNIE: Your wife's Jenny Havens, right?
JOHN: Well, Jenny Grogan now
ARNIE: She take the job at the Post?
JOHN: I tried to get her over her
YEAH: I tried to get her over her
ARNIE: I tried to get her over her
JOHN: Damn fine writer.
OH: Damn fine writer.
ARNIE: Damn fine writer.
JOHN: Well, she does features. I'm more a straight news writer. This is a better paper for that.
ARNIE: Straight news writer, huh. Meaning you think you're a reporter?
JOHN: Meaning I know I am.
ARNIE: And the six other sweaty-palmed college grads I'm interviewing today, you think you're better than them?
JOHN: No, sir. In fact, I'm pretty sure I'm not. But I do know that I always seem to surprise myself. Ten years ago, I was doing bong hits and playing Donkey Kong, never dreamed I'd get into college. But I did, and I graduated with honors. Two years ago, my buddies told me that the most Jenny Havens would ever say to me was, You're sweet, but I don't like you in that way.. But she did like me in that way and my buddies can suck it because I married her. I certainly never thought I'd win some award with a dumbass name
ARNIE: ( POINTING )
JOHN: ( POINTING BACK )
ARNIE: That's quite a speech, son. You rehearse that, or come up with it on the fly?
JOHN: Elevator, on the way up.
JENNY: He's got me on a little thing they like to call. Desert Storm
JOHN: He's got me on a little thing they like to call. Desert Storm
JENNY: YOU GOT THE JOB! She gets out of the car and the two embrace right there on the street. She takes out her notebook, crosses something off on her "list."
JOHN: So what's next? Lunch?
JENNY: ( KISSES HIM )
JOHN: You like the quote about the speed "If they save even one life"
JENNY: ( LOOKS )
JOHN: -"it would be worth it. And with that, Janet Dickerson's mother's eyes filled with tears."
JENNY: Yeah, no, it's good. What happened to the Desert Storm piece?
JOHN: That's it. The injured girl's dad's in Kuwait. What, that's not in there?
JENNY: ( looks at the article ) Uhhhh. they must've cut it. And they kinda misspelled your name. John What you're kidding He reaches for the paper, but she holds it away.
JOHN: What you're kidding He reaches for the paper, but she holds it away.
JENNY: Forget it. It's good, John. It's got facts, some color. It's a solid piece.
JOHN: Thanks. I'm almost done with yours. This idea of voting machines sounds
REALLY EFFICIENT: Well, except on the other page I talk about what could happen He goes back to reading. She sips her coffee.
JENNY: Well, except on the other page I talk about what could happen He goes back to reading. She sips her coffee.
JOHN: Oh, it continues. An awkward moment as he now searches for the new page, has to fold back the paper. No escaping the fact that ie article is longer and more important than his. She finally gets up.
JENNY: You know what? The rest is just okay, really pretty boring.
JOHN: No, no, I'm enjoying it. He tortures himself and keeps reading. She moves to the sink, starts to rinse out her cup.
JENNY: Damn. I killed another one. How am I ever going to take care of a kid, I can't even keep a plant alive? John looks up from the paper. "Kid?" She comes gives him a She headsout, leaving John staring terrified at the plant.
SEBASTIAN: Well, what'd you expect? You bought a house, man. A house with a mare What's wrong with a spare room?
JOHN: What's wrong with a spare room?
SEBASTIAN: It's empty, John. That's what's wrong with it. And you know what else is empty? Her womb.
JOHN: I'm starting to worry that we're already at Step Six.
SEBASTIAN: You know Jenny, she's got her whole life organized and planned out. Sebastian smiles at a secretary, turns back to John.
JOHN: You know Jenny, she's got her whole life organized and planned out. Sebastian smiles at a secretary, turns back to John.
SEBASTIAN: You want my advice? Get her a PuPPYâ€¢
JOHN: A puppy.
SEBASTIAN: Something other than you she has to take care of. ( points at him ) You have a kid, you're a dad. You're not you anymore. You have a dog, you're a master. You're still a guy. With a life.
JOHN: And a dog.
SEBASTIAN: Whatever, man. You're still free. You've stopped the clock.
JOHN: What clock?
SEBASTIAN: Okay. you know in movies when there's, like, a bomb and it's ticking down, ten seconds left, and there's some guy with a wire cutter going, "red wire. blue wire. which one do I cut?" And the guy finally just makes a wild-assed guess and SNIP. Silence. The world is saved.
JOHN: Okay. is the bomb strapped to a dog. because I'm not sure I'm
FOLLOWING: 18 CONTINUED: ( 2 ) 18
SEBASTIAN: John, you buy this dog, you're saving your world. Because that ticking you hear, is not a bomb, it's her biological clock. John looks back at him.
JOHN: ARNIE .( O.S. ) They both turn as Arnie sticks his head out of his office.
SEBASTIAN: In motion.
JOHN: Where you going?
SEBASTIAN: Colombia. I got a guy down there, says he can put me next to Pablo Escobar I'm doing this piece, I follow a single coca leaf from Colombia, to the streets of Miami.
JOHN: Yeah, you and I once talked about doing something like that. We were gonna call it, "From Plant to Pusher." Remember?
SEBASTIAN: Not really.
ARNIE: HEY GORGAN ( JOHN LOOKS )
HEY GORGAN: ( JOHN LOOKS )
JOHN: Actually, it's Grogan
ARNIE: I want two paragraphs for the blotter.
I8: 18 CONTINUED: ( 3 )
JOHN: So uh, what kind of puppy? Sebastian looks up at him.
SEBASTIAN: Get her a lab. They're supposed to be just like little kids. But easier to 19 EXT. DOG BREEDER'S HOUSE - MORNING As John and Jenny get out of the car. She looks at the house.
JENNY: This isn't the ihop.
JOHN: A little surprise first.
LORI: Sorry about the smell.
JENNY: When can I look?
JOHN: Just hang on. Lori opens a door to a laundry room.
JENNY: Oh my God. they're adorable.
LORI: That's okay, they can't leave for another three weeks anyway.
JENNY: John, we never even talked about this.
JOHN: You're right. Let's go. He's kidding. And besides, Jenny's already on the floor, letting the puppies climb all over her.
JENNY: Look at you guys.
LORI: I got papers on the mom and the dad, so you can register these.
JOHN: Is the father here too?
LORI: ( HESITATING BRIEFLY )
AND: She points to one male puppy, who is clearly the goofiest most excited.
JENNY: How sweet. He's on clearance.
LORI: Well, he's a little too stocky for the breed, so he probably won't show.
JENNY: He's so sweet. Marley & He Shooting Draft 18.
JOHN: He likes you.
JENNY: John, I don't know if I'm ready for a
PUPPY: You have to wait three weeks for the litter to get weaned, before you can bring 'em home anyway.
LORI: You have to wait three weeks for the litter to get weaned, before you can bring 'em home anyway.
JOHN: Plenty of time to get ready.
JENNY: I won't even be here. I'm gonna be with my sister then.
JOHN: No problem. I can take him. Be good bonding time. Get him all trained in time for you to come home. A chuckle from Lori.
LORI: ( STOPS CHUCKLING )
JOHN: I hear the best dog in the litter is the one who doesn't spook easily. They turn out to be the most people- Uh, how are you gonna John turns away, and then suddenly turns back with a loud step and a "BOO"! All of the puppies scatter. Lily barks. But Clearance Puppy just leaps onto his shoes, his tail Well, that's your guy. John scoops him up. Clearance Puppy licks his face. John hands him to Jenny. She lets him lick her face.
LORI: ( SLIGHTLY WORRIED ) LORI ( CONT'D )
JENNY: I would've picked you anyway
JOHN: Meant to be. He watches her cuddle the puppy and knows he's done the right 21 EXT. LORI'S HOUSE DAY 21 Lori waves goodbye, check in her hand, as John and Jenny walk to the car. Jenny carries a Polaroid of Clearance Puppy.
JENNY: You really sure about this? I mean, a puppy's a lot of work.
JOHN: How hard could it be? We hear A COMMOTION is coming from the woods, something crashing through the brush, breathing heavily. They both freeze as the sound comes their way.
JENNY: What's that? Just then they are nearly knocked off their feet by a huge, rampaging Labrador, soaking wet, covered with mud and burrs. It circles them, barking WILDLY, a crazed look in its eye. It jumps up on John, muddies his shirt, then barrels past Lori into the house, knocking over a chair on the porch as it goes. A beat.
JOHN: I think we just met the dad.
JENNY: Call me as soon as you get him home. Oh, hey, we need a name.
JOHN: How 'bout I just call him "Clearance Puppy" until you get back. I only hope he doesn't say his first word without 23 EXT. LORI'S HOUSE - NIGHT John steps out of his car and the puppy, now twice the size he was three weeks ago, bounds over to him. A harried Lori follows, a rope leash and instruction. sheet in hand.
JOHN: Whoa! He got big. This is the right one, right?
LORI: You should see him pack away the puppy So, what if I run into any problems?
JOHN: So, what if I run into any problems?
LORI: ( BACKING AWAY )
JOHN: No, that's okay, I'll just. John opens the door, indicates that Marley should jump in. Instead, the puppy runs around the car, barking, jumping up on the bumpers. John finally catches him, lifts him up, puts him on the front passenger seat atop some towels.
JOHN: Hey. guy. The dog just stares at him quizzically. Uncomfortable alone with the dog, John turns on the radio. BOB MARLEY plays and the puppy THUMPS HIS TAIL.
GOOD BOY: ( trying it out ) ( nothing, then ) THUMP THUMP THUMP. Marley. Okay Marley. Cool. But now the pup starts wriggling towards John, John tries to put him back.
JOHN: This is our house. The dog immediately pees on the ground.
JOHN: This one's water. This one's food.
JOHN: Okay, now. Pee. He motions with his zipper.
JENNY: Marley. I like that.
JOHN: Are you sure? Because it can be INTERCUTTING: JOHN & JENNY No, it's good.
JENNY: No, it's good.
JOHN: Oh, yeah, he's pooped. Marley lets out a SQUEAK as he tugs at a couch cushion.
JENNY: ( HEARS IT )
JOHN: ( snapping his fingers at the dog, shaking his head "no" ) He's very cute. Just like a little kid only furrier.
JENNY: Put the phone by his ear. John chases after the dog who burrows under the couch, his tail sticking out so that John can't get him.
JOHN: Uh, okay, he's listening. John just holds the phone awkwardly as Jenny coos baby talk.
JENNY: ( into the phone ) Hey, Marley! Who's my good boy?! Mommy can't wait to meet you.
JOHN: Anyway, don't worry, he's doing great. Like he's lived here his whole life. All eight weeks of it. And you know what else? I think he's going to be pretty easy to train. I mean, he's curious which means he's smart, right?
JENNY: Of course he is. I can't wait to see Just him?
JOHN: Just him?
JENNY: I'm not the one sleeping in a box.
JOHN: I'm not the one sleeping in a box.
JENNY: I love you. I'll see you Friday.
JOHN: I'll see you in the morning, okay? Marley looks at him with a heartbreaking expression. John Aw, come on, don't. You'll be fine, alright. And tomorrow, we're gonna tear it up. I'm thinking kibble, park, chew toy, the whole nine yards. Okay? we good? Marley doesn't-look so good, looks kind of sad. John turns and gets out of there.
JOHN: Big day tomorrow! Rest up, pal! He listens a beat; Marley quiets down. He gets in his car.
SEBASTIAN: So I'm there in this cave, right? Blindfolded. And I can feel the machine guns, there's like nine of 'em around me. and they tie me to a chair and then Escobar comes in and says are you ready?
JOHN: Some of it.
SEBASTIAN: Man, I wish you could've been there.
JOHN: Yeah, but then I wouldn't have been able to do the piece on the water main break at the library. That would have ( hand on John's shoulder ) Your time will come, amigo.
SEBASTIAN: ( hand on John's shoulder ) Your time will come, amigo.
JOHN: I'll drink to that They toast with their beers, Sebastian clocks John looking at his watch.
SEBASTIAN: You gotta be somewhere?
JOHN: Oh. No, it's the puppy. It's his first
NIGHT ALONE: You got adoc?
SEBASTIAN: You got adoc?
JOHN: Marley. A little lab. Like you said. Remember? The bomb.
SEBASTIAN: Oh, right. Smart move. You'll see. ( slaps him on the back ) You've just preserved your quiet way of life for at least another two years.
NEIGHBOR: Millers got robbed again. ( then, turns to John ) And that mutt of yours hasn't shut up since you left. John looks towards the garage where we hear WHIMPERING.
JOHN: No no. I just wanted you to know I'm The puppy whimpers and he goes over to him, reaches into the box and pets him.
JOHN: Just this one time. John climbs into bed, shuts off the light. Marley whimpers and John rolls onto his stomach, reaches into the box and strokes his back, the puppy lays down, still whimpers.
JOHN: She comes home today. Hung over, he sits up, looks around the messy room, half due to John's bachelor housekeeping habits, half due to Marley. Not only has everything has been chewed, but some time during the night Marley discovered how much fun toilet paper is.
JOHN: It's already completely gnawed up. John looks at Marley who emerges dragging a roll of toilet paper, rams right into the screen door, bounces back.
GET THROUGH: Meanwhile, Marley backs up a few steps, gets a head of steam, then rams into it again, this time goes right through it.
JOHN: I'll be back in an hour. Be good.
JENNY: How's my puppy?
JOHN: I'm okay. A little tired, but
OTHERWISE: She nudges him. He gives her another kiss.
JENNY: She takes off for the side door of the garage.
JENNY: Oh my God. It's a mess. It's almost incredible that it's all due to a single puppy. The box is in shreds; so are the blankets. A puddle of urine on the floor. A large piece of dry wall has been chewed off near the big garage door. The garbage cans are overturned. Marley is whimpering in the corner.
JOHN: Wow. Okay, this is not how I left it.
JENNY: How long has he been in here?
JOHN: An hour, at the most. ( looks around, then ) Jeez. he Alg drywall. That's just not ( she picks him up ) Look. He's shaking Another bit of THUNDER and the puppy whimpers louder.
JENNY: ( she picks him up ) Look. He's shaking Another bit of THUNDER and the puppy whimpers louder.
JENNY: Marley, no! Jenny chases him into the kitchen, past John who holds up the He gave me an extra paragraph. Marley bursts through the back screen door.
JOHN: He gave me an extra paragraph. Marley bursts through the back screen door.
JOHN: Marley, no! John chases him across the backyard. Marley goes under the fence and John starts to go over into.
JOHN: Marley, no! They wave to the NEIGHBOR standing on his patio watching.
JENNY: Happy Thanksgiving. Marley goes through a hedge and out onto.
JENNY: Marley, no!
JOHN: I don't understand, why me?
ARNIE: I'm in a bind, John.
JOHN: But I'm a reporter, not a columnist.
ARNIE: It's a step up.
JOHN: Yeah, but it's a step away from what I wanna do.
ARNIE: It's also better pay, you set your own hours, pick your own topics.
JOHN: What happened to Jerry?
ARNIE: You may have noticed that in every other column, he went on about The Pie I really haven't read his
JOHN: I really haven't read his
ARNIE: Turns out he's been getting free meals in exchange for mentioning the joint. It's also why he became such a fat ass. John nods. Oh.
GIRL: Your dog's funny.
JOHN: ( PAUSES )
GIRL: He tried to eat one of our tires.
JOHN: Yeah, well, dogs need rubber. Little known fact, helps the digestive Right. Along with the occasional black Converse high top which I'd still love to get back by the way.
GIRL: Right. Along with the occasional black Converse high top which I'd still love to get back by the way.
JOHN: I'll do what I can.
GIRL: 'Preciate that.
JENNY: I think he dislocated my shoulder. He doesn't heel hell, he doesn't even walk, he sprints, and I had to pull him off three dogs.
JOHN: Yeah, among others. There was a Yorkie, a Dalmatian and a bichon frise that may never be right again. ( sees the legal pad ) What're you doing?
JENNY: Yeah, among others. There was a Yorkie, a Dalmatian and a bichon frise that may never be right again. ( sees the legal pad ) What're you doing?
JOHN: Arnie gave me a column.
JENNY: You're kidding? Congratulations!
JOHN: Oh, yeah, it's a big honor. I get to write about zoning laws and yard sales.
JENNY: I bet you make something out of it.
JOHN: It's only temporary until he finds someone else. I'm just trying to get something down for Tuesday. She gives him a kiss, starts out of the room
JENNY: You'll think of something. And John, I'm serious abut Marley. He wreaks havoc everywhere he goes. We gotta do 55 EXT. PARK - DAY MS. KORNBLUT, weathered and stern, is studying John. Behind John, eight puppies and their owners are chatting before the class begins.
MS. KORNBLUT: Incorrigible? I don't believe in that. All dogs want to learn. But they can't when their owners are weak-willed.
JOHN: I'm very strong-willed.
MS. KORNBLUT: And where is your animal?
JOHN: He's over there. With my wife. He was a little excited. He usually needs a little time to calm down. Ms. Kornblut looks at Jenny as she struggles up with Marley.
MS. KORNBLUT: I see. He calls the shots. Which of you will be the trainer?
JENNY: we thought we both would, since we want him to listen to both of us at home -
MS. KORNBLUT: A dog can only answer to one master. Which one of you has the most natural authority in your own relationship?
JOHN: ( BEAT )
MS. KORNBLUT: I thought so. We begin.
MS. KORNBLUT: 56 CONTINUED:
JOHN: ( from the sidelines ) Yeah, he looks really bummed. Kornblut hears him, death stares John.
MS. KORNBLUT: You. Joker. Rotate in. John looks at Jenny who shrugs, holds up the leash for him to 57 CUT TO: A HEAVY CHOKE CHAIN 57 As Ms. Kornblut demonstrates on her wrist.
MS. KORNBLUT: The choke chain. When your animal walks properly by your side, there'll be slack. If he pulls, it tightens around his neck like a noose and loosens as soon as he stops pulling.
JOHN: Does it hurt them?
MS. KORNBLUT: Well, it's not called a hug chain. But they learn to like it. Go on, collar your dogs. Everyone else quickly, easily gets the choke chain around their dogs' necks. Of course. Meanwhile: John kneels down and struggles to put it. around Marley's neck. Marley, liking its shiny jingling, tries to eat it.
JOHN: He likes it.
MS. KORNBLUT: That's because he's eating it. Get it out of his mouth. Class? Give your dogs the sit command. All the dogs sit; John forces Marley's butt down.
JOHN: That means us, pal. He rearranges Marley so he's on John's left.
MS. KORNBLUT: Now, when you give the heel command, step off with your left foot - I don't want to see any right foot first steppers - and walk. If your dog gets ahead, administer a correction by forcefully bring your left hand down and towards the right, and he'll respond. Shall we? One, two, three - Just as the dogs and owners prepare to step off, Marley lurches ahead of the pack.
JOHN: Marley, heel! Marley takes off like a fighter jet, dragging John behind.
MS. KORNBLUT: Correct him! John gives a mighty yank on the leash. Marley coughs, hesitates. John loosens the leash - and Marley explodes forward again. John yanks, Marley stops, John releases, Marley explodes forward.
JOHN: Be my guest.
MS. KORNBLUT: Class? Even an unruly dog wants to obey his leader. Marley? Heel. And she steps off confidently - but Marley is a bit more confident than she is. He lunges, she pulls, he falls back on his hind legs, then barrels up and lurches forward. Ms. Kornblut half-stumbles, half rockets across the park. She manages to turn Marley around, and the whole process begins again as they make their way back to the line. Her face is flushed with embarrassment, anger, and exertion, but Marley, jowls frothing, is having a ball. It's like a walking tug-of-war. With difficulty, Ms. Kornblut manages to return Marley to John, but not before, as a coup-de-grace, he starts humping her leg enthusiastically. She struggles, he knocks her down, and then he buries his face in her crotch and humps her knee. John and Jenny rush over. John restrains Marley; Jenny helps up Mrs. Kornblut. She's livid.
JOHN: He usually just does this with poodles. ( looking at her bad perm ) Maybe it's the hair.
MS. KORNBLUT: He's a bad influence on the others. Leg-humping is a virus. Once it takes hold in a group - he has to go!
JOHN: Well, that was fun. ( to the dog ) Congratulations, Marley. You flunked obedience school.
JENNY: You know, John, there is something else we can do
JOHN: ( looks at her ) No, no, I'm not doing that to him.
JENNY: It's painless. And he'll be a lot more comfortable. It'll calm him down.
JOHN: Yeah, you know why he'll be calmer? Because he'll have nothing to look forward to.
JENNY: What're you talking about? There are plenty of other things that'll make him
HAPPY: That's where you're wrong. Trust me, Jen: I know. I'm a guy. And yeah, lots of things make us happy, but the only thing we really look forward to is sex. Runner up: the possibility of Oh, Please. Every book says he'll live
JOHN: That's where you're wrong. Trust me, Jen: I know. I'm a guy. And yeah, lots of things make us happy, but the only thing we really look forward to is sex. Runner up: the possibility of Oh, Please. Every book says he'll live
JENNY: Oh, Please. Every book says he'll live
LONGER: It'll just feel longer.
JOHN: It'll just feel longer.
JENNY: John, he's out of control. It's the right thing to do. John sighs, looks at Marley who's now humping the stuffed "goofy" that Jenny gave him as a puppy.
JOHN: It won't be so bad, buddy. You'll see. Sex is overrated. Marley looks-at him.
JENNY: He's making me nervous.
JOHN: He's fine. He just wants a little
FRESH: Suddenly Marley slides his front legs out the window until his front armpits are resting on the glass.
JENNY: John, grab him! Before John can do anything, Marley is off his lap and scrambling out the window of the moving car.
JOHN: He's onto our evil plan, and he's making a break for it! But now his butt is up in the air, his hind legs clawing for a foothold.
JOHN: Uh, little help here. John's stuck. He can't pull the dog back in the window and he can't open the door. He can't let go as angry drivers behind them are now starting to swerve around them. John hangs on for dear life.
JENNY: I got him!
JOHN: ( SHOUTING )
SEBASTIAN: Strip mall get approved?
JOHN: Riveting planning commission vote. Knuckle-biter. 8 to 1.
SEBASTIAN: You up for a beer?
JOHN: Can't, I gotta finish the column. Maybe tomorrow?
SEBASTIAN: Can't, I'll be in L.A. Part of that drug piece I'm doing
JOHN: Right. Another time then. John watches him move off, a secretary giving Sebastian a big smile as he passes. John sits there another moment, looks at his desk. A photo of him and Jenny. One of Marley with a flip flop in his mouth. John chuckles to himself, then deletes the column, starts typing a new one.
JOHN: I'm really sorry, I'll go back and do the zoning piece
ARNIE: The hell you sorry for? It's John sits back down, looks at Arnie. See, the thing is, Arnie's face doesn't say "hilarious," but.
JOHN: Thank you, sir. John starts out of the office.
ARNIE: Hey, Gorgan.
JOHN: I'll be sure to pass that on.
JOHN: To two years.
JENNY: That was fast.
JOHN: Good, though, right?
JENNY: Really good. He lifts out of his chair and kisses her, a long one.
JOHN: So. What's next?
JENNY: I was thinking desert.
JOHN: No, I mean on your list.
JENNY: My list?
JOHN: Remember, when we first got marri you had this whole checklist, with like the game plan.
JENNY: So what came next?
JOHN: So what came next?
JENNY: Let's see. a new car maybe?
JOHN: We can do that. What was
JENNY: ( BEAT )
JOHN: well, it was between a new roof and a He studies her for a long moment, then.
JENNY: well, it was between a new roof and a He studies her for a long moment, then.
JOHN: I can probably live with a few leaks.
JENNY: Really? Because a leak can turn into something bigger. and that can be a big responsibility.
JOHN: I know.
JENNY: I was just thinking that we might want everything fixed before we went to the next step.
JOHN: Well, we've already fixed Marley. You're serious about this?
JENNY: You're serious about this?
JOHN: I think so. JENNY t an And you know we're not talking abou actual roof here.
JOHN: Yeah, I got that. She looks back at him, finally nods. They are. Then..
JENNY: Okay. Maybe, instead of tying to have a baby, we should stop trying to not have one.
JOHN: If I'm following you correctly and I think I am this is the part where we go home and get it on, right?
JENNY: 66 INT. BEDROOM - DAY As Jenny pushes John back onto the bed, starts kissing Things getting hot and heavy quickly. As they kiss.
JENNY: Did you eat some kibble?
JOHN: Did you eat some kibble?
JENNY: Did you eat some kibble?
JOHN: And now they part and we see MARLEY'S HUGE FACE RESTING ON THE SIDE OF THE BED, watching, panting up a storm.
SHOOTING DRAFT: MARLEY & ME 66 66 CONTINUED:
JENNY: it's fine, he's a dog, he doesn't what he's looking at.
KNOW: it's fine, he's a dog, he doesn't what he's looking at.
JOHN: Oh, he knows, and trust me, he the hell out of me right now. Go on, Marley! Get out! But Marley jumps up on the bed, tries to climb on both of
RESENTS: Oh, he knows, and trust me, he the hell out of me right now. Go on, Marley! Get out! But Marley jumps up on the bed, tries to climb on both of
THEM: And now they both start laughing as the dog tries to lick their faces.
JENNY: And now they both start laughing as the dog tries to lick their faces.
ARNIE: This is even funnier than the last one.
JOHN: Thank you, sir.
ARNIE: You're good, Gorgan. And not just the dog stuff. The piece on the women of Boca last week. What'd you call them?
JOHN: John nods, starts for the door.
ARNIE: John nods, starts for the door.
JOHN: Well, we're not really trying.
ARNIE: How's that work?
JOHN: Excuse me?
SHOOTING DRAFT: MARLEY & ME 67 67 CONTINUED:
ARNIE: Are you having sex?
JOHN: With the intention of getting pregn
ARNIE: With the intention of getting pregn
JOHN: i guess.
ARNIE: Congratulations. You're trying. John just stands there. Arnie looks back at him.
JOHN: Yeah, I mean.
JOHN: 69 INT. 345 CHURCHILL ROAD - SAME Jenny on the phone, looking at a dry erase calendar.
JENNY: I just thought I'd let you know that I'm ovulating.
JOHN: Just in case you wanted to come home.
JENNY: Just in case you wanted to come home.
JOHN: 69 CONTINUED: 69
JENNY: Like right now.
GIRL'S VOICE: And now, another KID, 4-year-old girl, jumps up in and out of I wanna push the button!
GIRL: I wanna push the button!
FATHER: Daddy can't lift you right now
GIRL: ( jumps up again ) You said I could push the button!
FATHER: Alright, okay, I'll just He tries to pick her up without leaning over.
GIRL: Ow! You're hurting me!
FATHER: Okay, you know what? Never mind, no A very uncomfortable John now steps forward.
JOHN: You want me to give her a hand?
FATHER: Oh would you mind? John lifts the girl up to the panel. She runs her hands, from top to button, down the panel, pressing every single Sarah! Goddammit
JOHN: John watches the young couple go, arms around each other.
GIRL: John watches the young couple go, arms around each other.
JOHN: Hey, boy.
JENNY: Out in a sec! John stands there, Marley looking at him.
JOHN: ( to the dog ) So. This is us not trying. The bathroom door opens and Jenny walks out in a tiny, silky two-piece thing.
JENNY: Hey, Sailor. She walks into the bedroom. John looks back at Marley as he follows her into the bedroom.
JOHN: Catch you later, buddy. And closes the door on the dog.
SEBASTIAN: So the puppy wasn't enough?
JOHN: Well, technically, we're not trying. But you know Jenny.
SEBASTIAN: But things are good right now, just as they are, right?
JOHN: Yeah, things are really good.
SEBASTIAN: So why change it up with a kid? I mean, have you already forgotten my little cautionary tale.
JOHN: The bomb, right?
SEBASTIAN: Yes. The bomb. And just so we're clear, the countdown sequence has been reactivated. By you.
JOHN: Well, it's been a few months and nothing's happened. Which actually makes me wonder if
BARTENDER: Mr. Grogan? The BARTENDER sets a PHONE down in front of John.
JOHN: ( EMBARRASSED )
BARTENDER: Seriously, man, your stuff is classic.
JOHN: Well, it's just temporary, but thanks. John cuts a look at Sebastian, picks up the phone.
JOHN: Oh. Why don't you two get started and I'll be there as soon as I can.
JENNY: Very funny. Can you come home? I'll make it worth your while.
JOHN: Oh. Alright then. I'll see what I can He hangs up. Looks at Sebastian.
WITH: She's calling you home, isn't she?
SEBASTIAN: She's calling you home, isn't she?
JOHN: Yeah. See you later. John starts out of the bar. Sebastian calls after him.
SEBASTIAN: Tick tick tick!
JOHN: You know, this baby thing. I been thinking maybe we should take a break. You know? Obviously, it's not happening. Maybe that's nature's way of saying it's not good timing. No sound from Jenny. He struggles on.
BEHIND: He looks up to see Jenny at the bathroom door. From her back she brings out a home pregnancy test strip.
JENNY: I'm pregnant.
JOHN: ( PAUSE, then ) Great. Wow, that's. great.
JENNY: But you just said
JOHN: Yeah, no, I mean okay, this is definitely awkward now, but.
JENNY: You wanna start over?
JOHN: Can I?
JENNY: By all means.
JOHN: Thank you. Okay, well. I gotta be honest, I'm a little panicked.
JENNY: Are you panicking because I'm pregnant. or because you're afraid I'm going to hit you?
JOHN: Both. It's a twofer thing.
JENNY: Are you scared?
JOHN: No. No. Not at all. ( then, looks at her ) Yeah, yeah I'm pretty scared.
JENNY: ( sits down next to him ) Me, too. But we're gonna be okay.
JOHN: ( BEAT )
JOHN: That's probably the last one about Marley for a while. But in about nine months, I'm gonna have a new subject, might be just as fun. Jenny's I'm very happy for you. Have you bought her a present?
ARNIE: ( FLAT )
JOHN: A gift, John. She's carrying a child. Your child. Don't you think that's worth something?
ARNIE: A gift, John. She's carrying a child. Your child. Don't you think that's worth something?
JOHN: You don't wanna make the mistake I did. Listen to me. There's gonna come a time, she's fat, she's nauseous, her ankles are swollen, and she's gonna look at you, and this is what that look will mean: "You bastard. You did this to me. You dick, you ruined me." But
ARNIE: You don't wanna make the mistake I did. Listen to me. There's gonna come a time, she's fat, she's nauseous, her ankles are swollen, and she's gonna look at you, and this is what that look will mean: "You bastard. You did this to me. You dick, you ruined me." But
JOHN: ( indicates the door ) Can I just
ARNIE: Go ahead. There's a jeweler on the corner. Mention my name.
JENNY: Oh, John, it's beautiful. She sets it down on the coffee table, then moves close to Thank you. She kisses him.
JOHN: I was just thinking about you when I walked by the store and saw it in the That is so sweet.
JENNY: That is so sweet.
JOHN: Put it on. She turns back to the coffee table and looks around.
JENNY: Where'd it go? It was right here.
JOHN: You just put it down. It can't have
JUST DISAPPEARED: And then he stops. Looks off. So does Jenny.
JENNY: Oh God. Marley stands a few feet away, looking strangely gleeful. A glint of Gold in the moonlight dangles from his mouth. They both get up, start to move towards him.
JOHN: We don't want any trouble.
JENNY: Yeah, here's a little something ( imaginary ) treat. Marley She reaches into her pocket for an moves looks at her. Is this a trick? He considers. Then he closer. John tiptoes up behind him, ever so slowly.
JOHN: He made me! Go! Jenny lurches for Marley, going for his collar, and John leaps at him from behind. Marley skitters away. Ah, a game! He wags his tail, prances, sticks his rear in the air and his puts his head to the ground. John feints, tries to maneuver Marley back into Jenny. Jenny finally grabs him from behind. John pries open his mouth. Nothing. He reaches inside, looks up at Jenny.
JOHN: 78 EXT. 345 CHURCHILL - BACKYARD - DAY John hoses through Marley's huge orange iridescent poops.
JOHN: Man, you gotta lay off the mangoes.
JENNY: I think it's shinier than before. Yeah. He did us a favor. And I only threw up eight times.
JOHN: Yeah. He did us a favor. And I only threw up eight times.
JENNY: My hero.
NURSE: How's that crazy dog of yours? ( smiles at John ) I'm a big fan.
JOHN: Thank you.
NURSE: The heartbeat'll be very fast, like a little train. That's normal. Shooting Draft 56.
JOHN: Is it too soon to tell the sex? Not that I care. He can be any sex he wants. Male, female, we don't care. Unambiguous genitalia, if we had our druthers, but whatever.
NURSE: Shhhhh. hang on. She listens for a moment with a little microphone hooked up to a speaker. Nothing.
JENNY: Next Monday, yes.
NURSE: Might be a little early for that. Let's go right to the sonogram. Did you bring your blank tape?
JOHN: ( waving it, smiling ) Ready to roll.
NURSE: Let's get a good picture first. It'll be on the monitor there. The Nurse begins running the instrument around Jenny's stomach. John and Jenny peer at the computer screen.
DR. SHERMAN: Hi, guys. Let's have a look at your baby, shall we?
JENNY: Is there anything in there?
DR. SHERMAN: Not what you'd expect to see at ten Not quite ten weeks. Dr. Sherman looks at them directly. Kindly:
JENNY: Not quite ten weeks. Dr. Sherman looks at them directly. Kindly:
DR. SHERMAN: Jenny, I'm sorry, but there's no John and Jenny are still, silent.
JENNY: How could this happen? What'd I do You didn't do anything
JOHN: You didn't do anything
JENNY: I must have. Otherwise, how could I lose it?
JOHN: Jenny, it's not something you have any control over. It's like the doctor said, it just happens
JENNY: Not to me. I did something wrong. I know it. I did something wrong. I'm sorry, John.
JOHN: Don't say that
JENNY: But I am I'm sorry
JOHN: I don't need sorry. You didn't do She turns away and begins to cry. John just sits there, staring at the videotape in his hands. Outside in the hall, the door to another examining room opens and they hear a couple laughing, talking excitedly. Jenny and John look away from each other, their pain made even worse.
JOHN: In a couple of months, we can try again. Okay?
JOHN: You want some tea?
JOHN: Yeah. Close to a hundred pounds. ( re: the leash struggle ) He just wants to say hi. He won't hurt you. Just stand still and be calm. You're a dog person, right?
DEBBY: well, actually -
JOHN: - Ready?
DEBBY: John releases Marley who springs on Debby, knocking her back.
JOHN: He's not supposed to do that. You have to knee him. Anyway, it won't happen the whole time. Just maybe when you come home. ( handing her a binder )
JENNY'S VOICE: Debby. Welcome to our home! Marley is a spirited dog who loves interaction. We've never left him before but we're sure he'll behave just as he does when we're at home. They kiss him goodbye. Get in the cab and go. Debby runs to Marley, grabs his leash and struggles with all her might to hold on to Marley.
N: reads about Ireland in the guide book. Jenny sees a woma with a child. She smiles. No tears.
JENNY'S VOICE: There are just a few things about Marley you need to know. He eats three times a day. If he looks starved, feed him again. Of course all this food has to go somewhere.
JENNY'S VOICE: Use the red shovel and the blue bucket. Watch your step. Don't worry about the color. He likes mangoes. Marley & He Shooting Draft 61.
JENNY'S VOICE: Marley's ears get a lot of wax buildup. Once or twice while we're gone, please use cotton balls and the blue ear- cleaning stuff to clean them out. Wear old clothes and try not to breathe.
JENNY'S VOICE: Marley is an excellent watchdog. And in this neighborhood, that's a good thing. You can rest easy at night, knowing he's on the job.
JENNY'S VOICE: Thunderstorms are his weak point. Well, one of his weak points. You can give him sedatives if you think a storm is arriving. He doesn't like them, so push them down into his throat as far as they go.
DEBBY IS: Marley is tearing through the house, terrified. chasing him with a bottle of tranquilizers.
JOHN'S VOICE: We do not allow Marley to get up on any piece of furniture, chew on anything except his toys, drink out of the toilet - keep the lid closed and the brick on the lid -
JOHN'S VOICE: - actually, you might want to keep the bathroom door closed in general.
JOHN'S VOICE: Other than that, enjoy him! Thanks so much. Love, Jenny and John.
MRS. BUTTERLY: And if you need anything during the night, I'm right next door. The blankets are wool. Good heat in them.
JENNY: Oh, they're electric?
MRS. BUTTERLY: No, not in this house. My brother died in a fire, God rest him.
JENNY: Look, I know we haven't had sex since. you know. But there's no way we're breaking the streak tonight.
JOHN: No kidding. 'Cause it's not just God watching. God, his mother. ( indicating next door ) .and apparently his best friend.
JOHN: It's July, but I think I can see my I can't feel my toes. John gets out of his bed and into Jenny's. Much SQUEAKING.
JENNY: I can't feel my toes. John gets out of his bed and into Jenny's. Much SQUEAKING.
JOHN: It's not the mattress. It's the shrieks of over-sexed souls in hell.
JENNY: You wanna join them? He looks at her.
JOHN: Are you sure, because we don't have I can't help myself. Knowing it hasn't happened in this house in 50 years is a They roll into each others' arms, the bed squeaking.
JENNY: I can't help myself. Knowing it hasn't happened in this house in 50 years is a They roll into each others' arms, the bed squeaking.
JOHN: Maybe she's deaf.
JENNY: ( TO JOHN )
JOHN: He jumps as Mrs. Butterly slams the teapot on the table.
MRS. BUTTERLY: ( looks him in the eye ) I'm off to Mass. Mrs. Butterly leaves. John and Jenny look at the other guests. They smile bravely.
JOHN: Wow. Any of you hear her bed squeaking last night? I hope she hits confession before Mass, that's all I can say.
JOHN: Hey, Debby. So how was -Debby hurls the binder of instructions at him.
DEBBY: There were eleven thunderstorms while you were away. Eleven! And you were right. He doesn't like thunderstorms!
JENNY: Okay, yeah, wow. Eleven, huh? That is a lot.
DEBBY: And those goddamned dog tranquilizers don't work!
JOHN: Did you give him four at a time?
DEBBY: I mean on humans! She hobbles to the car, tries to get in with her crutches. They frustrate her and she ends up beating the ground with them until she throws them down. She's losing it.
JOHN: It's only thunder. John goes back to work. We hear more THUNDER, and Marley starts howling, knocks over a floor lamp. John looks off towards the bedroom.
JENNY: Luck of the Irish. She holds up a pregnancy test with a clear BLUE line, her exuberant face lit up by a FLASH OF LIGHTNING. John goes to hug her, as Marley HOWLS in the b.g., we then.
JENNY: She catches her breath, leans over to John.
WHOA: She catches her breath, leans over to John.
JOHN: I think it's time.
JENNY: I think it's time.
JOHN: It's okay.
JENNY: Suddenly, A GROWL. They turn to see Marley glaring at John.
JOHN: It's okay. I'm not hurting her. Jenny MOANS again and now Marley's eyes narrow. He takes a step towards John.
JENNY: You put the car seat in this weekend, right? They won't let us take the baby home without the car seat installed.
JOHN: Like I'd forget that.
JOHN: Come on, Marley. Help me out here. Do what you do best. Unsure, Marley licks the box.
JOHN: Car seat's in!
JOHN: Yeah. You? Marley barks from the back seat. They both turn and look at him. What's he doing here?
JENNY: Yeah. You? Marley barks from the back seat. They both turn and look at him. What's he doing here?
JOHN: Okay. Here. Stay. Be good. Please, God. No storms. Stay.
JOHN: Hey, boy.
JOHN: Here's the thing: in a couple of hours, we're gonna bring the baby home. And you'd be doing me a really big favor if you didn't freak out. ( stands, sighs ) I'm gonna try and do the same thing.
JOHN: Hey, boy. let's go outside.
JENNY: Hello, Marley. She crouches down, gives him a kiss, rubs his back. And that's when we hear a small, birdlike chirp and the dog freezes. Where'd that come from? We hear the coo again and this time Marley lifts one paw in the air like a bird dog, and points in the direction of the car seat that we now see sitting on the bed.
JOHN: You know what I think would be a bummer? If he ate the baby. .Harley & Me Shooting Draft 70.
JENNY: This is Patrick, Marley. Jenny unbuckles Patrick from the car seat and crouches down beside Marley and lets the dog sniff the baby's toes, then up his legs, finally his diaper which puts Marley into a Pampers stupor, the Holy Grail of aromas and Marley's eyes glaze.
JOHN: No, but I'm gonna have to put a lock on the diaper pail.
JENNY: I have the quote right here Patrick crawls over Marley, who's supremely patient as Patrick takes a fistful of his eye.
THE FLOOR: To where Marley waits, eagerly vacuuming up the cereal. It continues to RAIN CHEERIOS and we then BOOM BACK UP and see that Patrick is now eight months old, laughing as he throws the cereal onto the floor.
JENNY: I need to go in tomorrow for a few hours, see my editor. Think you can watch the baby for me?
JOHN: John looks around the room. The place is a disaster area.
JENNY: You mean, those younger, skinnier better looking people? Yeah, I think I remember them. Vaguely.
JOHN: Well, I miss them. He turns back to his work. She looks at him, sets her pad aside, comes up behind him, puts her arms around him.
JENNY: They're still here. He looks up at their reflection in the window, not so sure.
JOHN: Honey, don't go out there.
JENNY: Honey, don't go out there.
JOHN: Stay here. Call the police.
GIRL: He said not to scream or he'd stab me, but I screamed. And John sees the blood on her shirt. He takes hold of her.
JOHN: Okay okay okay, I've got you.
GIRL: At work.
JOHN: Jenny'll call her.
GIRL: Well, you're gonna be alright, Lisa, the police are on the way. John looks off, wondering where Marley is.
JOHN: Well, you're gonna be alright, Lisa, the police are on the way. John looks off, wondering where Marley is.
JOHN: I can't find him anywhere.
JENNY: Maybe we should get in the car, drive I'll get the keys. John's coming into the house when a police cruiser pulls to the curb in front of the house. A POLICEMAN gets out of the driver's side, then opens the back and leads Marley out. He bounds up the walk to the two of them who greet him.
JOHN: I'll get the keys. John's coming into the house when a police cruiser pulls to the curb in front of the house. A POLICEMAN gets out of the driver's side, then opens the back and leads Marley out. He bounds up the walk to the two of them who greet him.
JENNY: Where were you?
JOHN: Where were you?
OFFICER: We found him outside the 76 station on Radford. He had the guy cornered in the men's room.
JENNY: So you caught the guy?
OFFICER: ( INDICATES MARLEY )
NO: ( INDICATES MARLEY )
JOHN: Thanks for bringing him home.
OFFICER: Helluva dog. John nods as The Officer heads back to his car. Jenny crouches down and gives Marley a big hug and a back rub.
JENNY: My hero.
JOHN: and starts to unhook Patrick from his car seat. Marley bolts out of the car and heads straight for the house.
JOHN: The Realtor smiles awkwardly at him.
REALTOR: ( looks at the baby ) First home?
JOHN: No, we live up in West Palm, over on Ooooh. Well, I think you'd find this neighborhood to be quite a pleasant And now Marley bolts past him into the house, tracking wet footprints all over the floor, jumps up onto the REALTOR.
REALTOR: Ooooh. Well, I think you'd find this neighborhood to be quite a pleasant And now Marley bolts past him into the house, tracking wet footprints all over the floor, jumps up onto the REALTOR.
JOHN: Hey, who's dog is that?
JOHN: A wet Marley bounds into the house, heads for the back. John 130 INT. BATHROOM - SAME Jenny is crouched on the floor when John appears in Hey. You alright? She stands up, smiles the best she can.
THE: Jenny is crouched on the floor when John appears in Hey. You alright? She stands up, smiles the best she can.
JOHN: Hey. You alright? She stands up, smiles the best she can.
JENNY: I'm fine. Where you guys been?
JOHN: I wanna show you something.
JENNY: ( hands her the set up ) A house. ( before she can react ) It's a little pricey, but I think we can do it.
JOHN: ( hands her the set up ) A house. ( before she can react ) It's a little pricey, but I think we can do it.
JENNY: John, I know we've talked about it, but I'm not sure this is the right time.
JOHN: And when would the right time be, Jen? After one of us gets stabbed in the C'mon, honey, we're cramped in here. This was supposed to be our three-year house, remember?
JENNY: C'mon, honey, we're cramped in here. This was supposed to be our three-year house, remember?
JOHN: C'mon, honey, we're cramped in here. This was supposed to be our three-year house, remember?
JOHN: C'mon, honey, we're cramped in here. This was supposed to be our three-year house, remember?
JENNY: I know, but we can't afford to buy a new one.
JOHN: Sure, we can. With both our salaries
JENNY: Yeah, about that. I don't think I'm gonna be able to keep working.
JOHN: What? Are you sure? She steps away, revealing the counter where FOUR PREGNANCY TESTS are lined up, all with the same result: Positive.
JENNY: 131 INT. SUN-SENTINAL OFFICE - DAY 131 John sits with Sebastian at his desk.
SEBASTIAN: Already? I mean, how old's the one you About eight months.
JOHN: About eight months.
SEBASTIAN: Jesus. Haven't you heard of birth Yeah, well, sometimes it doesn't work. You know what else doesn't work? The one about how "A dog will stop your wife's biological clock."
JOHN: Yeah, well, sometimes it doesn't work. You know what else doesn't work? The one about how "A dog will stop your wife's biological clock."
SEBASTIAN: Hey, I'm not the one, keeps getting her John gives him a look, sees Arnie heading into his office, takes a breath and gets to his feet.
JOHN: Wish me luck.
SEBASTIAN: I'm sure he'll give you the raise.
JOHN: How do you know?
SEBASTIAN: He always gives me one. John just shakes his head, starts for Arnie's office.
ARNIE: Why should I do this, why are you worth Because I'm doing a good job?
JOHN: Because I'm doing a good job?
ARNIE: Are you asking me?
JOHN: Well, since I took over, the column has doubled in readership.
ARNIE: So you are doing a good job.
JOHN: Yes, sir.
ARNIE: So why not make it permanent?
JOHN: You mean, like forever?
ARNIE: That's what the word "forever" means. John, you know how many yo yo's in the other room would kill to have their own column? You took a piece of crap About Towner and turned it into something I hate to break it to you, son, but you're a good columnist.
JOHN: I just had this idea about myself, you know, that I was a reporter.
ARNIE: Yeah, well sometimes life comes up with a better idea. Tell you what. You make it a daily column and I'll double your salary. How's that?
JOHN: Hey, Lisa.
LISA: ( THEN )
JOHN: well, I don't blame you. I just thought I'd come over and say But Marley comes running over and she crouches down to greet him. She hugs him a while.
LISA: well, I don't blame you. I just thought I'd come over and say But Marley comes running over and she crouches down to greet him. She hugs him a while.
JOHN: Huh. what?
LISA: Huh. what?
JOHN: Huh. what?
LISA: Nothing. I just. never pictured, you know, a guy like you moving to Boca.
JOHN: A guy like me?
LISA: Yeah, you know, young, cool, whatever.
JOHN: So you think I'm young and cool. And you're not just saying that because I saved your life?
LISA: Actually, a paramedic named Josh saved my life.
JOHN: Right. Well, take care, Lisa. Oh,
WAIT: He reaches into a moving box, pulls out a chewed-up black I believe this belongs to you.
LISA: Thanks. I'll have to chew up the other one to make it match. ( extends her hand ) Have fun down there.
JOHN: Yeah. It's gonna be great.
JENNY: Shhh, honey. Come on. John follows now.
JOHN: Is he wet?
JENNY: No. And I can't get a burp out of him. I think it's colic.
JOHN: Want me to drive him?
JENNY: We can't do that every night. From the other room, we HEAR Patrick CRYING, "Mommy!"
JOHN: I'll do the washer.
JOHN: Any ideas?
JENNY: Can you take him? I just need a minute to myself. John takes the baby and instantly Conor starts crying louder.
JOHN: Happens every time.
JENNY: You just need to spend more time with 138 INT. CONOR'S BEDROOM - DAY 138 John puts Conor on the changing table, unbuttons his onesie, checks his diaper. It's wet; he starts changing him. Conor cries throughout. Jenny enters.
JENNY: It's okay, I'll do it.
JOHN: I'm doing it! It's fine! You tell me to spend more time with him, I do it, and then you take over because I'm not doing it right.
JENNY: I don't want you changing him when you're mad.
JOHN: I'm not mad! He hears himself, lets her change the baby. She takes him, sits down with him in a rocking chair, tries to nurse him.
JENNY: Conor, come on. Conor, please. She finally stops trying, rocks the chair, looks helplessly at John.
JOHN: He's just colicky, Jen. He'll grow out of it.
JENNY: Okay, here's an idea, you stay here and I'll go to work while he grows out of He holds up his hands, what does he say to that. She looks up at him a moment.
ARNIE: Her hormones are all on tilt and she's depressed. It happens. After my fourth kid was born, I'd wake up, find my wife just staring at me with a mallet in her hand. I thought she was gonna kill me in my sleep. I still Did you get her the gift?
JOHN: Huh. That usually works. Arnie gets off the desk, says to the Photographer:
ARNIE: Huh. That usually works. Arnie gets off the desk, says to the Photographer:
PHOTOGRAPHER: You have a Barney sticker in your
JOHN: Oh thanks. He rakes his fingers through his hair, grabs the offending sticker, looks at her.
PHOTOGRAPHER: 139 CONTINUED: 139
JOHN: Kids. I got one with colic, and another, can't make it through the night without coming into my room every two hours.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Well, I think you're holding up great. You look cute.
JOHN: Yeah, like a cute, exhausted Dad. It's John just nods stupidly, the dagger so deep in his heart, he'll never reach it. She smiles at him.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Yeah, like a cute, exhausted Dad. It's John just nods stupidly, the dagger so deep in his heart, he'll never reach it. She smiles at him.
JOHN: Nineteen years, huh. And just when he thought one dagger was brutal enough, his expression goes really pensive. And on that look, we see a FLASH as she takes his picture and go right to:
JOHN: I'll get him. John leaves the room. Jenny sits there.
PATRICK: Jenny wakes up on autopilot.
JENNY: Okay, honey, let's go back to bed. She leads him out of the room. And a second later Conor starts crying. John lies there a moment, then gets up.
JOHN: Jen, you okay?
JENNY: I'm fine.
JENNY: You ruined it! Bad dog! She leaves the room and John looks at the dog.
JOHN: You just had to eat the book? What, have you got some kind of death wish? I'm telling you, you better chill, or she'll kill you. Right after she kills 146 EXT. GROCERY STORE - DAY As Jenny loads up the back of the car with bags of groceries. Patrick, sitting in the cart, looks off and points
PATRICK: Jenny turns and sees A BUS, with John's picture on the side, an advertisement for his column. She watches it pass.
JENNY: Uh-huh. I see him. And she goes back to loading the car.
JENNY: She now lays down and closes her eyes. A moment of peace. And then, somewhere in the distance we hear a faint BEEP BEEP BEEP as some truck backs up. Marley lifts his head, perks up his ears and listens. Please don't bark, dog. Please don't bark. BEEP BEEP- And Marley BARKS, bolts out of the room. Jenny opens her eyes with a start as Marley runs barking through the house, we hear something CRASH and break O.S.
JENNY: Why do you do this?! Why do you wreck everything! Why?!! She hauls her hand back to hit him, but hesitates, and just shoves him away from her and storms into the other room for 151 EXT. BOCA RATON HOUSE - EVENING As John pulls up, gets out of his car. We hear Marley barking in the garage.
JOHN: Why's Marley out in the
JENNY: I want that dog out of here.
JOHN: Okay. I'll take him out. She looks up at him.
JENNY: I want you to get him out of here and keep him out of here.
JOHN: What'd he do
JENNY: I mean it, John. I want him gone. I want him gone for good.
SEES THE: A sad John posts a "DOG FOR SALE" sign. A CO-WORKER sign and smiles.
PUTS: John watches the guy walk off, scribbles a new it up. This one reads "E F D TO GOOD HOME." comes up to John.
SEBASTIAN: You giving up the dog? i thought yo u loved that thing.
JOHN: Jenny wants him out.
SEBASTIAN: That's harsh, man.
JOHN: I don't know what else to do. She's really unhappy. Maybe the dog is just one too many things.
SEBASTIAN: They're all unhappy. Trust me. Well. who knows? Maybe you'll get lucky and nobody'll want him. John just nods, thinks about that. Sebastian glances around, then takes John aside.
JOHN: I just gave Arnie my notice. John looks over at Arnie's office, the door's closed.
SEBASTIAN: I just gave Arnie my notice. John looks over at Arnie's office, the door's closed.
JOHN: You going over to the Post?
SEBASTIAN: I'm going to New York. Sebastian smiles. John doesn't move.
BUDDY: I know who you're talking about.
JOHN: I know who you're talking about.
SEBASTIAN: You don't seem happy for me.
JOHN: I am. I'm just in shock. I mean, I'm in Florida because of you. Woodward and Bernstein. Remember? That was the Yeah, that was the idea before you decided to be the Andy Rooney of South I didn't decide to be anything
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, that was the idea before you decided to be the Andy Rooney of South I didn't decide to be anything
JOHN: I didn't decide to be anything
SEBASTIAN: Boom. That hurts John. They stand there a moment, considering each other, then.
JOHN: Smart boy.
JOHN: Yeah, uh. Monday, then. Give us Up to you. John looks at the dogs in the back, all of them trying to get his attention.
THE: Yeah, uh. Monday, then. Give us Up to you. John looks at the dogs in the back, all of them trying to get his attention.
EMPLOYEE: Up to you. John looks at the dogs in the back, all of them trying to get his attention.
ARNIE: These are all responses to the column you wrote last week. John thinks a moment.
JOHN: ( looks at the letters ) Oh. I assume they all want me to keep No. They're all saying they'd take Arnie moves on and John stares at the letters.
ARNIE: No. They're all saying they'd take Arnie moves on and John stares at the letters.
JOHN: You can't lo any more of these, ok ay? Because they s e 're not gonna keep getting you more, and I won't be there to look for them. He looks at Marley standing there wagging his tail.
JOHN: He's all packed up. Patrick will want to say good-bye, but Conor's too young
TO: You can't do this.
JENNY: You can't do this.
JOHN: What do you mean? Three days ago, you were pretty clear
JENNY: I know, but you can't do it. I won't let you. You can't give away Marley.
JOHN: Okay, wait. I'm lost. You told me you didn't want him around. What's The fact that you would have done something like that, for me, that you love me that much.
JENNY: The fact that you would have done something like that, for me, that you love me that much.
JOHN: Maybe not, maybe Marley is one thin too many.
G: Maybe not, maybe Marley is one thin too many.
JENNY: I got overwhelmed, John. I mean, be. one tells you how hard it's gonna
JOHN: Which part?
JENNY: All of it. Marriage. Being a parent. It's the hardest thing in the world and no one prepares you for that. No one tells you how much you have to give up.
JOHN: I'M SORRY
I'M SORRY: It's not your fault. It's just something I have to figure out. But Marley going, that won't fix anything.
JENNY: It's not your fault. It's just something I have to figure out. But Marley going, that won't fix anything.
JOHN: ( nods, then ) She kisses him on the cheek, then gets up and goes into the bathroom. He sits on the edge of the bed, staring down the HIS POV -MARLEY to how they've At the end of the hall, panting, oblivious both just been spared.
JENNY: ( BEAT )
JOHN: I made reservations at Sunny's. Thought we could all sit outside.
JENNY: Sounds perfect. ( takes his arm ) Thank you.
JENNY: To a perfect day with my boys.
BEHIND THEM: A blonde Boca Trophy wife, with a poodle on a jeweled leash, shrieks excitedly as she meets up with another woman, same type, with another small fluffy'dog. The little dogs yip. CAMERA BOOMS DOWN to underneath the table to Marley who has spotted the poodles and is now locked and loaded.
JOHN: Marley, no! - and suddenly, he is jerked back. John has tackled the table Marley's dragging. Marley YELPS and lands on his bac k, then quickly rights himself, tail wagging, the happiest dog in the world. Everyone surrounding them on the plaza has frozen silent. They all stare at Marley and the Grogans. The poodle jumps out of her arms and runs to its distraught owner. Jenny's head is in her hands, her shoulders heaving.
JENNY: Boys, say hello to Colleen. We PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Patrick, now six and Conor four, standing beside the bed with John. They all crowd around "mom" as the NURSE now takes a picture. On the FLASH, we.
JENNY: John, telephone.
CONOR: Mom, look what we did!
JOHN: 166 EXT. BOCA RATON HOUSE - DAY As John comes back out of the house, looking stunned.
JENNY: Who was on the phone?
JOHN: Philadelphia Inquirer. She looks at him.
JENNY: What'd you say?
JOHN: I said thank you very much, but I'm happy where I am. I mean, it's a big change, Florida to Pennsylvania.
JENNY: Yes, it is.
JOHN: John smiles at her, then goes to his sons.
JOHN: Well, that's part of the job. To get reader response.
ARNIE: You notice any recurring themes the
JOHN: Yeah. We've got a lot of cranks in Broward County.
ARNIE: Yeah. Including yï¿½gu the last couple ( he flips through some ) ".. .if he doesn't like it here, he
FROM YOUR: should move". "more whining resident malcontent". "is there anything good about Florida according to Mr. Grogan?"
JOHN: Arnie, I'm a commentator. We've got issues here. Over-crowding, crime, immigration tensions, runaway
ARNIE: Florida hasn't soured, John. You have.
JOHN: I don't know. Maybe it's turning 40 next week, or maybe.
ARNIE: Maybe what?
JOHN: Maybe I'm sick of my column. I don't really think I'm all that interesting.
ARNIE: Are you kidding? You're the comic voice of South Florida's middle class. You're a national treasure. Well, a regional treasure. Municipal treasure, for sure. You're just a little burned out. Why don't you take a coupweeks off? Consider it my birthday present.
JENNY: Happy birthday, honey!
JOHN: Forty. Jesus Christ. He looks at Marley a moment, then.
JOHN: Okay, who wants to help me here? Kids? Marley, you too. Jenny squats down with the cake, and John and his kids start to blow out the candles.
JENNY: Okay, tell the truth, were you really Yeah. Thanks, Jen. She sits down on his lap.
JOHN: Yeah. Thanks, Jen. She sits down on his lap.
JENNY: You want your present?
JOHN: Is it what you gave me last year? Because that was real nice She hands him an envelope.
JENNY: Happy Birthday. He opens it, pulls out an AIRLINE TICKET.
JOHN: A plane ticket?
JENNY: To Philadelphia. So you can talk to the editor of the inquirer.
JOHN: That was months ago
JENNY: I called the editor last week. They'd still like to meet you.
JOHN: Jenny, I couldn't do that, uproot us. We've got our friends, the schools.
JENNY: First of all, you don't even have the job yet, it's just an interview. Second of all, you don't have that many Thank you. What I was trying to say, is that our life is here.
JOHN: Thank you. What I was trying to say, is that our life is here.
JENNY: Baby, I got news for you, our life is wherever we are. And you're not happy here anymore, doing that column. You're restless, John. I feel it. I feel it when you read Sebastian's articles every day. And I feel it when you sit out in the driveway an extra five minutes before you come in.
JOHN: I'm forty, Jen. Seems kinda late for Not so late. She stands up in the dark, lifts her dress over her head.
JENNY: Not so late. She stands up in the dark, lifts her dress over her head.
JOHN: What're you doing?
JENNY: We're not old, John. We can still surprise ourselves. He sits there stunned as she now dives into the pool. She surfaces and smiles at him.
INTO: John can't get out of his clothes fast enough. He leaps the pool and swims over to her, kisses her.
JOHN: And a moment later Marley's head goes bobbing by.
ARNIE: Hey, Gorgan. John smiles to himself, walks over.
JOHN: Thank you, sir.
ARNIE: Also, there's a good chance that every piece of advice I ever gave you, may in fact be total crap.
JOHN: I appreciate it just the same. They stand there a moment, awkward. Then.
ARNIE: This would be where a mushier guy would tell you he's proud of you, give you a hug, and send you on your way.
JOHN: Really glad you're not that guy, sir. Arnie nods, goes back into his office and shuts the door.
JOHN: Look. There's Marley! THROUGH THE WINDOW they can see Marley's crate arriving at the plane on a luggage truck. Marley is asleep, heavily drugged. Conor starts banging on the window.
CONOR: Hey, Marley! We're up here!
PATRICK: He can't hear you with the engine ( aside to Jenny ) Not to mention the tranquilizers. I think he's already reached his cruising 175 INT. PLANE - LATER The engines ROAR up and the stewardess begins her pre-flight safety demonstration. John watches her, smiling, relieved they made it this far, when he freezes. A MUFFLED MOAN is coming from beneath his feet. Clearly it's Marley. Passengers near them frown.
JOHN: ( aside to Jenny ) Not to mention the tranquilizers. I think he's already reached his cruising 175 INT. PLANE - LATER The engines ROAR up and the stewardess begins her pre-flight safety demonstration. John watches her, smiling, relieved they made it this far, when he freezes. A MUFFLED MOAN is coming from beneath his feet. Clearly it's Marley. Passengers near them frown.
PASSENGER: is that a dog?
JOHN: Maybe, I don't know.
PATRICK: Marley's Sad. Marley's our dog. He's with the suitcases. John smiles weakly at the Passenger.
JOHN: What an imagination, huh?
JOHN: Marley jumps into a pile of leaves, scatters them everywhere, rolls over onto his back and knocks over a rake, which falls and breaks a basement window.
EDITOR: Hey, John. Settling in okay?
JOHN: I'm fine, thanks.
EDITOR: Good. I want you to meet Billy. He indicates the twenty-something guy beside him. John and Billy shake hands.
BILLY: You're the Florida guy, right? The dog Well, some of them were, but
JOHN: Well, some of them were, but
BILLY: Cute stuff. C'mon, I'll show you 179 EXT. PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY January. John wakes up. Marley is whimpering at him.
JOHN: And then Conor and Patrick burst into the room.
PATRICK: It's here!
JENNY: Okay, time for lunch!
JOHN: I'll bring this in. Go on up. The kids and Marley head up to the house. John drags the toboggan up the hill. He pauses at the top and looks down at the toboggan run. He gets on the toboggan.
JENNY: Honey, what're you doing?
JOHN: I can't remember the last time I rode on a toboggan..
JENNY: He starts sliding down the hill. Marley runs for him as he builds up speed.
JOHN: Marley, no!
JENNY: John! The creek! The toboggan bumps over the crest of a small hill and sails through the air, landing with a crash on the iced-over creek. John and Marley tumble into a snow bank on the opposite side. A moment. But then Marley jumps up and wriggles in delight. John painfully unfolds himself, checks for injuries. Marley comes up and romps with him.
JOHN: Hey. wanna do it again?
JENNY: 182 INT. PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE - NIGHT 182 John shuts off all of the lights, heads upstairs. We follow him up the stairs. He stops near the top, peers through the bannister into.
JOHN: That's alright, pal. I won't tell.
PATRICK: Hey, boy. We HOLD WIDE ON THEIR BACKS as the boys start up the road towards home, Marley bounding between them, nipping at Patrick's backpack.
JOHN: Hit me, I'm open! Patrick throws the ball to John who catches it, mocks stiff- arms his way to the front steps with the boys now hanging off him as he gives the play-by-play.
COLLEEN: Mommy says dinner and take off your Alright. c'mon guys. They all get up, start up the steps. Marley follows, takes one step when his hind legs buckle. John looks back at him.
JOHN: Alright. c'mon guys. They all get up, start up the steps. Marley follows, takes one step when his hind legs buckle. John looks back at him.
CONOR: What's wrong with him, Daddy?
PATRICK: ( QUICKLY )
JOHN: That's right. Football just took it out of him. C'mon, let's give him a And now the three of them go to Marley, help him up the 186 INT. PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER - EDITOR'S OFFICE - DAY John sits across from the editor.
JOHN: Too much color.
EDITOR: Yeah, I mean, don't get me wrong, it's a good piece, but. you're reporting now, John. I want you to tell the story, I don't want you to be in the
STORY: I'm pretty sure I don't mention myself
JOHN: I'm pretty sure I don't mention myself
EDITOR: The point is, I still feel you in John sits there, thinking about that.
CONOR: They all begin waving their hands in front of their faces.
JENNY: I think someone needs to go out.
JOHN: ( GETS UP )
JOHN: It's pouring out there. He grabs his slicker and heads back out.
JOHN: Now Jenny appears in the front door.
JENNY: What's wrong?
JOHN: He's not coming.
JENNY: John starts off into the dark.
JOHN: He can't be too far.
JOHN: He'll show up.
JOHN: He's just out exploring. You know how much he likes the woods.
PATRICK: Bobby says dogs, when they're going to die, they go away to do it. That's what his beagle did.
JOHN: And that's true. for beagles. But not labs like Marley. He's just out there making trouble somewhere. Don't 195 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT John's on the phone to neighbors.
JOHN: Okay. Well, if you see him. thanks. He hangs up, goes to the window.
OVER TO: ( he sees something ) Shooting Draft 109.
JOHN: It's okay, boy, it's okay.
DR. PLATT: He's on an IV for fluids and a So what happened?
JOHN: So what happened?
DR. PLATT: His stomach twisted. He ate or drank something quickly, took in a lot of air and his stomach flipped. I got a tube down which let out some of the gas. I think i untwisted it.
JOHN: So he's okay.
DR. PLATT: For now. But once this happens, it almost always happens again. And if it does, there's not gonna be anything I can do. He's too old for that kind of What if it doesn't happen again?
JOHN: What if it doesn't happen again?
DR. PLATT: More than likely, it will.
JOHN: But what if it doesn't?
DR. PLATT: I just think you should prepare yourself that he might not make it through the night.
THIS: One percent? What's that number based DR. PLATT Mr. Grogan
JOHN: One percent? What's that number based DR. PLATT Mr. Grogan
DR. PLATT: Mr. Grogan
JOHN: I'll tell you what it's based on: regular dogs. ( getting worked up ) Lady, we are so far from 'regular", you have no idea.
JOHN: We're just gonna have to wait and see. If he makes it through the night, I think we'll be alright. He notices the album.
JENNY: Your old columns. He's in a lot of John rotates the album for a better look.
JOHN: You saved these?
JENNY: Every one. He looks up at her.
JOHN: ( listens, then ) Alright. Thank you. He hangs up, sees Jenny now standing in the doorway, tying her robe, looking at him anxiously.
JOHN: Nice place. How long you been here?
SEBASTIAN: Two years, little more. Sebastian sees John looking at all of the unpacked boxes.
JOHN: I can't, I still got one more interview to do.
SEBASTIAN: I can't, I still got one more interview to do.
JOHN: I can't, I still got one more interview to do.
A: Sebastian opens the fridge revealing nothing but beer and hunk of Parmesan.
SEBASTIAN: What's the piece again?
JOHN: Right, you told me that. So you're down in Philly now, huh?
SEBASTIAN: Right, you told me that. So you're down in Philly now, huh?
JOHN: Just outside. More space for the kids.
SEBASTIAN: Whatta you got, five now?
JOHN: Three. Here's a picture of John pulls a photo from his wallet, hands it to Sebastian.
SEBASTIAN: ( NODS )
JOHN: ( ignores the callowness ) Yeah, she's great. And that's Colleen our youngest.
SEBASTIAN: What's with the ladybug get-up?
JOHN: ( smiling at the memory ) Oh, yeah, that's a funny story. She had done this pageant at her preschool two weeks before, but she didn't wanna take off the costume, plus Marley went ballistic for the antenna which is why it looks like he's trying to eat her Yeah, that is funny. ( returns the photo ) So I was thinking later on maybe Thai? There's this new place in the meat Packing District. How's that sound? Be just like old times. John stands there a moment, feeling the distance between Uh, well, actually I'm headed back home later today.
SEBASTIAN: ( FLAT )
JOHN: Uh, well, actually I'm headed back home later today.
SEBASTIAN: In fact, I should probably get going.
JOHN: In fact, I should probably get going.
SEBASTIAN: ( awkward Man-pat hug ) Good seeing you, man.
JOHN: For sure.
SEBASTIAN: ( walking him out ) Oh, hey, be sure to check out the Delegates Lounge at the U.N. Great Mojitos, really hot interpreters.
JOHN: Thanks for the tip. And John goes out the door. Sebastian takes out his blackberry, dials.
SEBASTIAN: Hey, it's Sea-bass. What're you up to Oh. No, that's cool. Another time He hangs up, stands there in the middle of his big, empty apartment a moment. He then dials another number.
JOHN: Hello? Anybody home? He sees a note ( "PICKING UP THE KIDS. J" ), and peers into:
THE KITCHEN: Where Marley is up on his hind legs, eating something off the counter. John puts his keys down, but Marley doesn't react. John sneaks up behind him. Marley keeps eating the grilled cheese sandwich off the plate.
JOHN: Come on, boy, just a little further to the top. Marley comes up, panting, eyes wet and happy. John looks at him, can see how tired he is.
JENNY: ( turns to John ) Have you seen him?
JOHN: He's not up here.
A: John and Jenny find Marley lying peacefully in front of the dying fire.
JOHN: I guess I could move his bed down here. John sits down beside Marley.
JENNY: He looks pretty comfortable to me.
JOHN: Hey Jen? why don't you grab a blanket for me, too. She nods, starts back up the stairs. John grabs a pillow from the couch and lays down beside Marley.
JOHN: It'd be twice a week. Six hundred And what's the subject?
EDITOR: And what's the subject?
JOHN: Everyday stuff. The stuff we all go through. But funnier.
EDITOR: I don't get it. I thought you came here to be a reporter.
JOHN: I did, but I think we both know that isn't me. I'm a columnist. A good A SECRETARY sticks her head in the office.
SECRETARY: John your wife's on the phone. She says it's important.
JOHN: I'll be right there. ( to the editor )
JENNY: I can't get him back inside. He's lying out there in cold. and he won't 210 EXT. PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE - DAY Late afternoon. John's car pulls up.
JENNY: Patrick came home and we got him here. Dr. Platt said if he's comfortable, leave him here for a while and see. But he's no better. John kneels down by Marley, who looks at him but doesn't wag his tail or lick his hand. He runs his hand over his coat - then over his stomach, the dog flinches.
JOHN: I'm taking him in. The kids all come into the room, Colleen carrying a stuffed Is he sick again?
COLLEEN: Is he sick again?
JOHN: Yeah, he is, honey. But I'm going to take him to the hospital and they'll try to make him better. Conor bends down, nuzzles Marley's face.
CONOR: Get better, Mar.
COLLEEN: You can take Lamby, okay? ( she puts the stuffed animal next to him ) But don't chew her other ear off. Patrick leans down, hugs Marley tightly and whispers right in
PATRICK: When he looks up at his father, John can see that Patrick's crying, that he knows what the other two don't.
JOHN: You wanna walk? He sets him down gingerly. Hesitantly, Marley walks over to the tree that countless dogs have peed on, sniffs it, then looks around. John looks around, too. It's a crisp spring night in Pennsylvania. Takes a breath.
DR. PLATT: I did everything that worked before. But no luck. There's still surgery,
BUT HE'S: not strong enough.
JOHN: not strong enough.
DR. PLATT: There's blood in his stomach. The lining might be compromised. I don't know what we'll find if we go in there Can you give me a minute? I need to. I need to call my wife.
JOHN: Can you give me a minute? I need to. I need to call my wife.
JOHN: ( INTO PHONE )
JENNY: I know. Jenny nods as tears come. They stay on the phone, quiet, just being with each other. Finally:
JOHN: ( INTO PHONE )
DR. PLATT: I'll give you some time. She goes. John stares down at Marley. Takes the stuffed lamb out of his pocket, places it under a paw. When John puts a hand on his flank, Marley's eyes flutter open. His tail THUMPS gently.
JOHN: Hey, buddy. He pets Marley's head, runs his hands all over Marley's body. His coat, still shedding. His tail. He takes up each paw, each ear, remembering and memorizing at the same time. He leans down, puts his nose on Marley's neck and breathes him in. Then he goes around, squats down so he's on Marley's level. He looks into Marley's eyes.
DR. PLATT: He won't feel a thing. He'll just slip away. Are you ready?
JOHN: ( looking at Marley ) We're ready. Dr. Platt inserts the needle into the I.V. and presses the 220 INT. PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE - NIGHT 220 As a pajama-clad Patrick slips a tape into the VCR.
DR. PLATT: He's gone. FROM ABOVE, the dog on the table, the doctor discreetly going to the side, and John laying his head next to Marley and putting his arms around him as we now.
COLLEEN: He's wrapped in his blanket.
JOHN: So he'll be warm.
JENNY: You guys want to read your letters?
COLLEEN: Mine is a picture. Of me and Marley. And grasshoppers. And ice cream. Mommy wrote what I said. "Dear Marley. I will never forget you, forever." And those are kisses.
JOHN: It's beautiful, honey. He'll like it. Drop it in. Conor? Conor reads his piece of paper.
CONOR: "Dear Marley. I loved you all my life. I hope you like heaven and that there's lots to chew on. Your brother, Conor Richard Grogan." John puts his hand on Conor's shoulder as Conor drops in the letter into the grave.
JENNY: Patrick? Do you want to say anything?
PATRICK: He knows.
JENNY: I'd like to give him something. Jenny reaches behind her neck and unclasps the gold necklace John gave Jenny when she first got pregnant.
JOHN: Your dad gave this to me to celebrate the beginning of our family. But you know what? Our family had already She looks into the grave, gently sets the necklace atop the blanket, lets her hand rest there a moment, then stands up.
JENNY: Good-bye, Clearance Puppy.
FADE OUT: Writers : Don Roos
