MARTY: Written by Paddy Chayefsky
SHOOTING DRAFT: NEW YORK CITY, 187TH STREET. A SUMMER DAY FADE IN: Just east of Webster Avenue in the North Bronx, 187th Street is a predominantly Italian community and the commercial avenue of the neighborhood. Fruit and vegetable stands, pizzerias, butcher shops, bakeries, cleaners and dyers and bars flourish. It is Saturday morning around eleven o'clock a market WOMEN, dark, gesticulative, with bulging cloth shopping bags, baby carriages. MERCHANTS at their improvised street stands, hawking their wares, disputing with their CUSTOMERS, roaring salutations to PASSERSBY. In the midst of all this, CAMERA HOMES IN on a typical BUTCHER SHOP. Delicatessens hang on the walls, wreathed with garlands of garlic. PATSY, the boss, a swarthy man of sixty, is flopping a chunk of beef onto the scale for the benefit of a forty- year-old MATRON. There are three or four other WOMEN in the shop, all talking to one another. A four-year-old BOY lazily chases a cat. The white refrigerator room door opens, and a second butcher, MARTY PILLETTI, comes out carrying a large leg of lamb. Marty is a mildmannered, short, stout, balding man of thirty-four. His charm lies in an almost indestructible good humor. He drops the leg of lamb onto the chopping block, reaches up for the cleaver hanging with the other utensils over the block and makes quick incisive cuts into the leg of lamb. He sets the cleaver aside, picks up the saw to finish the cuts as he chats with his customer, MRS. FUSARI.
MRS. FUSARI: Your kid brother got married last Sunday, eh, Marty?
MARTY: ( sawing away ) That's right, Missus Fusari. It was a very nice affair.
MRS. FUSARI: That's the big tall one, the fellow with the moustache.
MARTY: ( still sawing ) No, that's my other brother, Freddie. My other brother Freddie, he's been married four years already. He lives down on Webb Avenue. The one who got married Sunday, that was my little brother, Nickie.
MRS. FUSARI: I thought he was a big tall fat fellow. Didn't I meet him here one time? Big tall, fat fellow, he tried to sell me life insurance? No, that's my sister Margaret's husband, Frank. My sister Margaret, she's married to the insurance salesman, and my sister Rose, she married a contractor. They moved to Detroit last year. And my other sister Frances, she got married about two and a half years ago in Saint John's Church on Kingsbridge Avenue. Oh, that was a big affair. Well, let's see now, that'll be about a dollar- seventy-nine. How's that with you?
MARTY: No, that's my sister Margaret's husband, Frank. My sister Margaret, she's married to the insurance salesman, and my sister Rose, she married a contractor. They moved to Detroit last year. And my other sister Frances, she got married about two and a half years ago in Saint John's Church on Kingsbridge Avenue. Oh, that was a big affair. Well, let's see now, that'll be about a dollar- seventy-nine. How's that with you?
MRS. FUSARI: Mrs. Fusari produces an old leather change purse from her pocketbook and painfully extracts one single dollar bill and seventy-nine cents to the penny and lays the money piece by piece on the counter. From the rear of the shop a woman's VOICE rings out.
WOMAN'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) Hey, Marty, I'm inna hurry.
MARTY: You're next right now, Missus Canduso.
MRS. FUSARI: When you gonna get married, Marty? You should be ashamed of yourself. All your brothers and sisters, they all younger than you, they married and they got children. I just saw your mother inna fruit shop, and she says to me, "Hey, you know a nice girl for my boy Marty?" Watsa matter with you? That's no way. Now you get Missus Fusari, Missus Canduso over there, she's inna big hurry, and.
MARTY: ( amiably ) Missus Fusari, Missus Canduso over there, she's inna big hurry, and.
MRS. FUSARI: My son Frank, he was married when he was nineteen years old. Watsa matter with you?
MARTY: That's swell, Missus Fusari.
MRS. FUSARI: You should be ashamed of yourself.
MRS. CANDUSO: Marty, I want a nice, big fat pullet, about four pounds. I hear your kid brother got married last Sunday.
MARTY: Yeah, it was a very nice affair.
MRS. CANDUSO: Marty, you oughta be ashamed. All your kid brothers and sisters married and have children. When you gonna get married?
MARTY: ( to two YOUNG MEN leaving ) What happened?
YOUNG MAN: The Yanks took two.
MARTY: Any homers?
MARTY: ( to the Kid ) Angie come in yet? So these two girls come over to the Hey, Ang'.
RALPH: So these two girls come over to the Hey, Ang'.
MARTY: Hey, Ang'.
RALPH: .and they sit down right next to You want a beer, Ang'?
MARTY: You want a beer, Ang'?
RALPH: I look over at this one nexta me, not bad, about thirty-five Hiya, Hiya, Ralph.
MARTY: Hiya, Ralph.
RALPH: .I been talking about two nurses Leo and me picked up in a bar on Seventy-First Street.
MARTY: ( to Bartender ) Hey, Lou, gimme two bottles-a beer.
RALPH: So, Marty, lemme tell you about these nurses, Marty.
MARTY: ( to Joe studying his magazine ) Waddaya read there, Joe?
RALPH: Turns out these two girls are nurses in some hospital on a Hundred and Fourth Street.
JOE: They shouldn't sell magazines like this on a public newsstand.
MARTY: That's the truth.
JOE: ( turning a page ) Can you imagine the effect this has on adolescents?
RALPH: So, Marty, let me tell you about these nurses.
MARTY: ( reaching for two bottles of beer proffered by the Bartender ) What nurses?
RALPH: The nurses Leo and me picked up last night. We got a date with them You still owe me ten bucks from last week, if that's what you're working up to.
MARTY: ( moving off to Angie's booth ) You still owe me ten bucks from last week, if that's what you're working up to.
JOE: Now that's something, eh?
RALPH: I used to go out with a girl like You should live so long.
THE KID: You should live so long.
ANGIE: ( without looking up ) So waddaya feel like doing tonight?
MARTY: I don't know, Ang'. Wadda you feel like doing?
ANGIE: Well, we oughta do something. It's Saturday night. I don't wanna go bowling like last Saturday. How about calling up that big girl we picked up inna movies about a month ago in the RKO Chester?
MARTY: ( not very interested ) Which one was that?
ANGIE: That big girl that was sitting in front of us with the skinny friend.
MARTY: Oh, yeah.
ANGIE: We took them home alla way out in Brooklyn. Her name was Mary Feeney. What do you say? You think I oughta give her a ring? I'll take the skinny She probably got a date by now, Angie.
MARTY: She probably got a date by now, Angie.
ANGIE: Well, let's call her up. What can we I didn't like her, Angie. I don't feel like calling her up.
MARTY: I didn't like her, Angie. I don't feel like calling her up.
ANGIE: Well, what do you feel like doing I don't know. What do you feel like Well, we're back to that, huh? I say to you, "What do you feel like doing tonight?" And you say to me, "I don't know, what do you feel like doing?" And then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching Sid Caesar on television. Well, I tell you what I feel like doing. I feel like calling up this Mary Feeney. She likes you.
MARTY: I don't know. What do you feel like Well, we're back to that, huh? I say to you, "What do you feel like doing tonight?" And you say to me, "I don't know, what do you feel like doing?" And then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching Sid Caesar on television. Well, I tell you what I feel like doing. I feel like calling up this Mary Feeney. She likes you.
ANGIE: Well, we're back to that, huh? I say to you, "What do you feel like doing tonight?" And you say to me, "I don't know, what do you feel like doing?" And then we wind up sitting around your house with a coupla cansa beer, watching Sid Caesar on television. Well, I tell you what I feel like doing. I feel like calling up this Mary Feeney. She likes you.
MARTY: What makes you say that?
ANGIE: I could see she likes you.
MARTY: Yeah, sure.
ANGIE: ( half-rising in his seat ) I'll call her up.
MARTY: You call her up for yourself, Angie. I don't feel like calling her up.
ANGIE: How about going downa Seventy-Second Street, see what we can find? Ralph says you have to beat them off with
ANGIE: Boy, you're getting to be a real drag, you know that?
MARTY: Angie, I'm thirty-four years old. I been looking for a girl every Saturday night of my life. I'm tired of looking. Everybody's always telling me to get married. Get married. Get married. Don't you think I wanna get married? I wanna get married. They drive me crazy. Now, I don't wanna wreck your Saturday night for you, Angie. You wanna go somewhere, you go ahead. I don't wanna go.
ANGIE: My old lady, every word outta her mouth, when you gonna get married?
MARTY: My mother, boy, she drives me crazy.
ANGIE: So what do you feel like doing I don't know. What do you feel like Marty, your mother wants you onna Come on over about half past seven, we'll think of something. Hello, Ma, what's the matter?
MARTY: ( without looking up ) I don't know. What do you feel like ( from phone booth in background ) Marty, your mother wants you onna ( rising in response; to Angie ) Come on over about half past seven, we'll think of something. ( settles into the phone booth, picks up the receiver ) Hello, Ma, what's the matter?
BARTENDER: ( from phone booth in background ) Marty, your mother wants you onna ( rising in response; to Angie ) Come on over about half past seven, we'll think of something. ( settles into the phone booth, picks up the receiver ) Hello, Ma, what's the matter?
MARTY: ( rising in response; to Angie ) Come on over about half past seven, we'll think of something. ( settles into the phone booth, picks up the receiver ) Hello, Ma, what's the matter?
MRS. PILLETTI: ( voice lowered ) Hello, Marty, when you coming home? Where you now? Because your cousin Thomas and his wife Virginia, they're here. They had another fight with your Aunt Catherine. I don't know.
MARTY: ( in the phone booth ) I'm coming home right now, Ma. I'll be home in about two minutes. Tell Thomas stick around, I wanna see him about something.
MRS. PILLETTI: Okay, you come on home, okay.
MRS. PILLETTI: He coming home right now.
VIRGINIA: So what happened, Aunt Theresa, about the milk bottle was my mother-in- law, she comes inna kitchen, Aunt Theresa, and she begins poking her head over my shoulder here and poking her head over my shoulder there, so then she begins telling me how I waste money and how I can't cook, and how I'm raising my baby all wrong, so she got me so nervous, I spilled some milk I was making for the baby.
MRS. PILLETTI: She was here, you know, Wednesday, and I said, "Catherine, my sister."
VIRGINIA: So she say, "You're spilling the milk." So she kept talking about these coupla drops of milk I spilled, so she got me so mad, so I said, "Mama, you wanna see me really spill some milk?" So I took the bottle, and I threw it against the door. I didn't throw it at her. That's just something she made up. She goes around telling everybody I threw the bottla milk at her. I didn't throw it anywheres near her. Well, I was sorry right away, you know, but she ran outta the house.
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, I don't know what you want me to do, Virginia. If you want me, I'll go talk to her tonight.
THOMAS: Well, I'll tell you, Aunt Theresa.
VIRGINIA: Lemme tell it, Tommy.
THOMAS: We want you to do a very big favor for us, Aunt Theresa.
VIRGINIA: We want you to do a very big favor for us, Aunt Theresa.
MRS. PILLETTI: Aunt Theresa, you got this big house here. I mean, you got this big house just for you and Marty. And I thought maybe Tommy's mother could come here and live with you and Marty.
VIRGINIA: Aunt Theresa, you got this big house here. I mean, you got this big house just for you and Marty. And I thought maybe Tommy's mother could come here and live with you and Marty.
MRS. PILLETTI: Because I called up Tommy's brother Joe, and I said, "Joe, she's driving me crazy. Why don't you take her for a couple of years?" And he said, "Oh no!" I know I sound like a terrible No, Virginia, I know how you feel.
VIRGINIA: Because I called up Tommy's brother Joe, and I said, "Joe, she's driving me crazy. Why don't you take her for a couple of years?" And he said, "Oh no!" I know I sound like a terrible No, Virginia, I know how you feel.
MRS. PILLETTI: No, Virginia, I know how you feel.
VIRGINIA: ( on the verge of tears ) I just can't stand it any more! Every minute of the day! Do this! Do that! I don't have ten minutes privacy with my husband! We can't even have a fight! We don't have no privacy! Everybody's miserable in our house!
THOMAS: All right, Ginnie, don't get so She's right. She's right. Young husband and wife, they should have their own home. And my sister Catherine, she's my sister, but I gotta admit, she's an old goat. And plenty-a times in my life, I feel like throwing the milk bottle at her myself. And I tell you now, as far as I'm concerned, if Catherine wantsa come live here with me and Marty, it's all right with me.
MRS. PILLETTI: She's right. She's right. Young husband and wife, they should have their own home. And my sister Catherine, she's my sister, but I gotta admit, she's an old goat. And plenty-a times in my life, I feel like throwing the milk bottle at her myself. And I tell you now, as far as I'm concerned, if Catherine wantsa come live here with me and Marty, it's all right with me.
THOMAS: ( not far from tears himself, lowers his face ) That's very nice-a you, Aunt Theresa.
MRS. PILLETTI: We gotta ask Marty, of course.
THOMAS: MRS. PILLETTI ( rises ) ( exits into the kitchen )
MRS. PILLETTI: ( rises ) You just sit here, I gotta turn the fire on under the cooking. ( exits into the kitchen )
VIRGINIA: ( having mastered her tears ) That's very nice-a you, Aunt Theresa.
THOMAS: ( calling to his aunt in the kitchen ) How's Marty been lately, Aunt Theresa?
MRS. PILLETTI: ( off-screen ) Oh, he's fine. You know a nice girl he can marry?
THOMAS: Oh, he'll get married, don't worry, Aunt Theresa.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( sitting down again ) Well, I don't know. He sits arounna house alla time. You know a place he can go where he can find a bride?
THOMAS: Well, there's the Stardust Ballroom. That's a kind of a big dance hall. Every Saturday night, it's just loaded with girls. It's a nice place to go. You pay seventy-seven cents. It used to be seventy-seven cents. It must be about a buck and half now. And you go in and you ask some girl to dance. That's how I met Virginia. Nice, respectable place to meet girls. You tell Marty, Aunt Theresa, you tell him, "Go to the Stardust Ballroom. It's loaded with tomatoes."
MRS. PILLETTI: ( committing the line to memory ) The Stardust Ballroom. It's loaded with tomatoes.
THOMAS: This is very nice-a you, Aunt Theresa, what you're doing for us, and don't think we don't appreciate.
VIRGINIA: This is very nice-a you, Aunt Theresa, what you're doing for us, and don't think we don't appreciate.
MRS. PILLETTI: He's here.
MARTY: Hello, Ma.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( whispers ) Marty, Thomas and Virginia are here. They had another fight with your Aunt Catherine. So they ask me, would it be all right if Catherine come to live with us. So I said, all right with me, but we have to ask you. Marty, she's a lonely old lady. Nobody wants her. Everybody's throwing her outta their house.
MARTY: Sure, Ma, it's okay with me.
MRS. PILLETTI: You gotta good heart.
MRS. PILLETTI: He says okay, it's all right Catherine comes here.
THOMAS: Oh, Marty, thanks a lot. That really takes a load offa my mind.
MARTY: Oh, we got plenny-a room here.
MRS. PILLETTI: Sure! Sure! It's gonna be nice! It's gonna be nice! I'll come over tonight to your house, and I talk with Catherine, and you see, everything is gonna work out all right.
THOMAS: I just wanna thank you people again, because the situation was just becoming impossible.
MRS. PILLETTI: Siddown, Thomas, siddown.
VIRGINIA: I'm sorry we gotta rush like this.
MRS. PILLETTI: That's all right, that's all right.
VIRGINIA: On accounta.
MRS. PILLETTI: I'm gonna see you tonight.
THOMAS: Marty, I don't know how to tell you how much I appreciate what you and your mother are doing, because the kinda thing was happening in our house was Virginia was in the kitchen making some milk for the baby. So my mother comes in.
VIRGINIA: Tommy, I promised the babysitter six Tommy, before you go, I wonder if you gimme a little advice.
MARTY: Tommy, before you go, I wonder if you gimme a little advice.
THOMAS: Sure, what?
MARTY: You're the accountant inna family, and I figure you might know about these things. My boss wantsa sell his shop to me. His kids are all married, you know, and he and his wife live alone, and they wanna move out to California where his daughter lives, so he wantsa sell his shop. He wants five thousand dollars down, although I think I can knock him downa four.
VIRGINIA: ( off-screen, from deep in the kitchen ) ( rises ) I'll see you at mass tomorrow. We'll sit down and we'll discuss the whole All right, I'll see you, Thomas, because he wants an answer by Monday.
THOMAS: ( rises ) I'll see you at mass tomorrow. We'll sit down and we'll discuss the whole All right, I'll see you, Thomas, because he wants an answer by Monday.
MARTY: All right, I'll see you, Thomas, because he wants an answer by Monday.
THOMAS: Sure. Thanks a lot about my mother. We'll work out some arrangement, because naturally I want to pay.
MARTY: Don't worry about it.
THOMAS: No, listen, that's my mother, I'm gonna pay for her.
VIRGINIA: ( off-screen ) Goodby, Marty!
MARTY: Goodby, Virginia! See you soon!
MARTY: ( with a vague pretense at good diction ) Hello, is this Mary Feeney?. Could I speak to Miss Mary Feeney?. Just tell her an old friend.
MARTY: .Oh, hello there, is this Mary Feeney? Hello there, this is Marty Pilletti. I wonder if you recall me. Well, I'm kind of a stocky guy. The last time we met was in a movie, the RKO Chester. You was with another girl, and I was with a friend of mine named Angie. This was about a month ago.
MARTY: The RKO Chester in Westchester Square. You was sitting in front of us, and we was annoying you, and you got mad, and. I'm the fellow who works in a butcher shop. Come on, you know who I am!. That's right, we went to Howard Johnson's and we had hamburgers. You hadda milkshake. Yeah, that's right. I'm the stocky one, the heavy-set feller. Well, I'm glad you recall me, because I hadda swell time that night, and I was just wondering how everything was with you. How's everything?. That's swell. Yeah, well, I'll tell you why I called.I was figuring on taking in a movie tonight, and I was wondering if you and your friend would care to see a movie tonight with me and my friend. Yeah, tonight. I know it's pretty late to call for a date, but I didn't know myself, till. Yeah, I know, well how about. Yeah, I know, well maybe next Saturday night. You free next Saturday night?. Well, how about the Saturday after that?. Yeah, I know. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I understand, I mean.
MRS. PILLETTI: So what are you gonna do tonight, I don't know, Ma. I'm all knocked out. I may just hang arounna house.
MARTY: I don't know, Ma. I'm all knocked out. I may just hang arounna house.
MRS. PILLETTI: Why don't you go to the Stardust
MARTY: MRS. PILLETTI
MRS. PILLETTI: I say, why don't you go to the Stardust Ballroom? It's loaded with
MARTY: It's loaded with what?
MRS. PILLETTI: Ha! Who told you about the Stardust Thomas. He told me it was a very nice place.
MARTY: Ha! Who told you about the Stardust Thomas. He told me it was a very nice place.
MRS. PILLETTI: Thomas. He told me it was a very nice place.
MARTY: Oh, Thomas. Ma, it's just a big dance hall, and that's all it is. I been there a hundred times. Loaded with tomatoes. Boy, you're funny, Ma.
MRS. PILLETTI: Marty, I don't want you hang arounna house tonight. I want you to go take a shave and go out and dance.
MARTY: Ma, when are you gonna give up? You gotta bachelor on your hands. I ain't never gonna get married.
MRS. PILLETTI: You gonna get married.
MARTY: Sooner or later, there comes a point in a man's life when he gotta face some facts, and one fact I gotta face is that whatever it is that women like, I ain't got it. I chased enough girls in my life. I went to enough dances. I got hurt enough. I don't wanna get hurt no more. I just called a girl just now, and I got a real brush-off, boy. I figured I was past the point of being hurt, but that hurt. Some stupid woman who I didn't even wanna call up. She gave me the brush. I don't wanna go to the Stardust Ballroom because all that ever happened to me there was girls made me feel like I was a bug. I got feelings, you know. I had enough pain. No, thank you.
MRS. PILLETTI: Ma, I'm gonna stay home and watch Jackie Gleason.
MARTY: Ma, I'm gonna stay home and watch Jackie Gleason.
MRS. PILLETTI: You gonna die without a son.
MARTY: So I'll die without a son.
MRS. PILLETTI: Put on your blue suit.
MARTY: Blue suit, gray suit, I'm still a fat man. A fat ugly man.
MRS. PILLETTI: You not ugly.
MARTY: ( his voice rising ) I'm ugly. I'm ugly! I'm UGLY!
MRS. PILLETTI: Ma! Leave me alone!
MARTY: Ma! Leave me alone!
MARTY: Ma, waddaya want from me?! Waddaya want from me?! I'm miserable enough as it is! Leave me alone! I'll go to the Stardust Ballroom! I'll put onna blue suit and I'll go! And you know what I'm gonna get for my trouble? Heartache! A big night of heartache!
MARTY: Loaded with tomatoes.boy, that's
FADE IN: NEW YORK CITY, WEST FARMS SQUARE. NIGHT West Farms Square is a big street in the Bronx, filled with stores, bowling alleys and bars. Cars push along between the pillars of the elevated subway structure. The NOISE of the subway trains ROARS by overhead every few moments. CAMERA FINDS and ESTABLISHES the Stardust Ballroom. It occupies the second floor of a large, dirty gray three-story building. It is a hot June night, and the windows are open for ventilation purposes. MUSIC manufactured by Dave Greenglass and His Band blends with the NOISES of the street.
ANDY: ( in a low voice ) I told you she wasn't especially attractive, but that she had a good deal of charm, and she's really a real nice girl.
DR. KEEGAN: ( extracting cigarettes from the machine ) She's all right, Andy. It's just that I get one Saturday night off every three weeks, and I was expecting something better, that's all.
ANDY: I told you she wasn't attractive.
DR. KEEGAN: You told me that she was a little tall, but that she wasn't bad looking at all.
ANDY: Millie's been after me to fix her up with a date, so I.
DR. KEEGAN: All right, I'm having a fair time. It's just that I get one Saturday night off in three weeks, and I wanted to wind up with something tonight.
DR. KEEGAN: The girl turns. Recognition floods her face.
GIRL: Herbie! Wadda you doing here?!
DR. KEEGAN: I came up to dance, wadda you think? You here with somebody?
GIRL: I'm just here with another girl.
DR. KEEGAN: Where you going now?
GIRL: I'm just gonna get my cigarettes. I left them in my coat.
DR. KEEGAN: I'll see you around.
GIRL: I'll see you.
DR. KEEGAN: That's a girl used to know.
ANDY: Boy, it's packed in here.
MILLIE: ( to Clara ) Some of these kids are awful young. Aren't you afraid you'll bump into one of your students?
CLARA: ( nervously looking at Dr. Keegan ) I wouldn't think so. I teach out in You been up here before, Clara?
ANDY: You been up here before, Clara?
CLARA: Yeah, twice.
MILLIE: Shall we try to get a table and get something to drink or shall we just go in and start dancing?
ANDY: Hey, Herbie.
ANDY: ( continues ) Hey, Herbie.
DR. KEEGAN: You wanna have a drink before we start dancing?
ANDY: You wanna have a drink before we start dancing?
DR. KEEGAN: Listen. You people go grab a table. I'll be back inna minute. I'll be right back.
ANDY: So what do you say, Clara? Wanna see if we can get a table?
CLARA: All right.
ANGIE: Not a bad crowd tonight, you know?
MARTY: There was one nice-looking one there inna black dress and beads, but she's dancing now.
ANGIE: ( looking off-screen ) There's a nice-looking little short one for you right now.
MARTY: ( following his gaze ) Down there. That little one there.
ANGIE: Down there. That little one there.
MARTY: Yeah, she looks all right from here.
ANGIE: Well, waddaya say, you wanna ask them? I'll take the one inna green I think this number is a little fast. Wait a minute.
MARTY: I think this number is a little fast. Wait a minute.
MARTY: It's all right, I think. They still
ANGIE: Waddaya say, you wanna dance?
MARTY: Excuse me, would you care for this
SHORT GIRL: ( but not unpleasantly ) I don't feel like dancing just yet.
MARTY: He turns and heads sluggishly in the direction of the stag THE STAG LINE. A TRAVEL SHOT follows Marty, as he moves past the line of stags, all of whom are watching him. CAMERA HOLDS as he finds his old niche by the wall, leans there. A moment later, he glances guardedly down to where the short girl and her friend MARTY'S P.O.V.: The Short Girl is approached by a dapper young BOY who asks her to dance. She smiles, excuses herself to her friend and follows the boy out onto the dance floor. Marty stares at the Short Girl. He shrugs, he's used to this kind of thing, then turns his attention bleakly back to THE DANCE FLOOR. The band starts up again and the MUSIC blares. It's a Lindy Hop number. Couples swirl past; the MUSIC comes up BIG.
DR. KEEGAN: ( off-screen ) You here stag or with a girl? You say something?
MARTY: You say something?
DR. KEEGAN: Yeah. I was just asking you if you was here stag or with a girl.
MARTY: I'm stag.
DR. KEEGAN: Well, I'll tell you. I got stuck on a blind date with a dog, and I just met an old girl I used to know, and I was wondering how I'm gonna get rid of the girl I'm with. Somebody to take her home, you know what I mean? I'd be glad to pay you five bucks if you take her home for me.
MARTY: ( confused ) I'll take you over, and I'll introduce you as an old army buddy of mine, and then I'll cut out. Because I got this other girl waiting for me out by the hatcheck, and I'll pay you five bucks.
DR. KEEGAN: I'll take you over, and I'll introduce you as an old army buddy of mine, and then I'll cut out. Because I got this other girl waiting for me out by the hatcheck, and I'll pay you five bucks.
MARTY: ( stares at the man ) Are you kidding?
DR. KEEGAN: No, I'm not kidding.
MARTY: You can't just walk off onna girl like that.
DR. KEEGAN: .in that case, as long as she's going home alone, give me the five bucks back.
STAG: Look, Mac, you paid me the five bucks. I was willing. It's my five bucks.
MARTY: ( finally ) Excuse me, Miss, would you care to
VIRGINIA: Hello, Aunt Theresa. Come in.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( in a low voice as she pulls off her coat ) Is Catherine here?
VIRGINIA: ( nods, keeping her voice low ) We didn't tell her anything yet. We thought that we'd leave it to you. We thought you'd put it like how you were lonely, and why don't she come to live with you. Because that way it looks like she's doing you a favor, insteada we're throwing her out, and it won't be so cruel on her. Do you want Tommy and me to stay here with I think it be a better idea if you and Thomas go out, because otherwise she's gonna start a fight with you, and everybody's gonna be yelling.
MRS. PILLETTI: I think it be a better idea if you and Thomas go out, because otherwise she's gonna start a fight with you, and everybody's gonna be yelling.
THOMAS: Hello, Aunt Theresa.
MRS. PILLETTI: Hello, Thomas.
THOMAS: I just this minute got the baby to
THOMAS: Aunt Theresa, we figure the best way to ask her is you say that you're very lonely, see? And wouldn't she come and keep you company, because that way, you see.
MRS. PILLETTI: Don't worry. I'm gonna take care-a the whole thing.
CATHERINE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) Who's there?! Who's there?!
MRS. PILLETTI: ( calling back ) It's me, Catherine! How you feel?
CATHERINE: Hey! What are you doing here?
MRS. PILLETTI: I came to see you. How you feel?
CATHERINE: I gotta pain in my left side, and my leg throbs like a drum.
MRS. PILLETTI: I been getting a pain in my shoulder.
CATHERINE: I gotta pains in my shoulder too. I have a pain in my hip, and my right arm aches so much I can't sleep. It's a curse to be old. How you feel?
MRS. PILLETTI: I feel fine.
CATHERINE: That's nice.
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, how's everything with you? My son Marty's fine. Everybody's
MRS. PILLETTI: My son Marty's fine. Everybody's
MRS. PILLETTI: We gotta postcard from my son Nickie and his bride. They're inna big hotel in Florida on their honeymoon. Everything is very nice.
CATHERINE: That's nice. I gotta letter from my husband's cousin in Abruzzi. His mother died.
MRS. PILLETTI: Do you remember Emilio DiGiorgio, owned the tavern in Abruzzi?
CATHERINE: Do you remember Emilio DiGiorgio, owned the tavern in Abruzzi?
MRS. PILLETTI: I don't think I remember him.
CATHERINE: Well, he died. You know who else You know the old man upstairs in this house. Old Irishman, always drunk. He got pleurisy. He was inna hospital two weeks. He died yesterday.
MRS. PILLETTI: You know the old man upstairs in this house. Old Irishman, always drunk. He got pleurisy. He was inna hospital two weeks. He died yesterday.
CATHERINE: You know the old man upstairs in this house. Old Irishman, always drunk. He got pleurisy. He was inna hospital two weeks. He died yesterday.
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, I always like to visit you, Catherine, because you always got such cheerful news.
THOMAS: ( suddenly ) Ma, you want something to eat, some tuna fish?
MRS. PILLETTI: Hey, why don't you go to the movie? Your mother and me, we're gonna be
VIRGINIA: Listen, let's go downa Kaplans' apartment. They told us to come down.
MRS. PILLETTI: Sure, sure.
THOMAS: All right, Ma, we're going downstairs to the Kaplans, if you want us for
CATHERINE: I wake up this morning, I hear the baby crying. So I wake up. I come in their room. That girl is shaking her hand atta baby. I said, "You brute! Don't you strike that baby! That's my son's baby!"
MRS. PILLETTI: It's her baby too, you know.
CATHERINE: That's my son Thomas's baby.
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, it ain't your baby.
CATHERINE: Did I tell you she threw the bottle- a milk at me?
MRS. PILLETTI: You told me.
CATHERINE: She's a witch, that one. I tell you what happen yesterday?
MRS. PILLETTI: What happen?
CATHERINE: She gave me the evil eye.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( scoffing ) I keep one eye open when I sleep, because she's gonna come in, stab me in my bed.
CATHERINE: I keep one eye open when I sleep, because she's gonna come in, stab me in my bed.
MRS. PILLETTI: Catherine, I want you come live in my house with Marty and me.
CATHERINE: MRS. PILLETTI
MRS. PILLETTI: You son Thomas and Virginia, they come to my house this afternoon.
CATHERINE: ( sharply ) Your son Thomas and his wife When was this?
MRS. PILLETTI: Your son Thomas and his wife When was this?
CATHERINE: When was this?
MRS. PILLETTI: This afternoon, about four, five What they say?
CATHERINE: What they say?
MRS. PILLETTI: You know what they say. They say things are no good in this house. Catherine, your son is married. Leave him in peace. He wantsa be alone with his wife. They don't want no old lady sitting inna balcony. Now I tell you what I think. I want you come live with me in my house with Marty and me. In my house, you have your own room. You don't have to sleep onna couch inna living room like here. We will cook inna kitchen and talk like when we were girls. You are dear to me, and you are dear to Marty. We are pleased for you to
CATHERINE: My son Thomas came to see you this afternoon, and he said to you he wants to cast his mother from his Catherine, don't make an opera outta this. The three-a you anna baby live in three skinny rooms. You are an old goat, and she has an Italian temper. She is a good girl, but you drive her crazy. Catherine, you are no fool. You know this is no good, an old woman living with a husband and wife. Two women inna same kitchen, anna house burns down.
MRS. PILLETTI: Catherine, don't make an opera outta this. The three-a you anna baby live in three skinny rooms. You are an old goat, and she has an Italian temper. She is a good girl, but you drive her crazy. Catherine, you are no fool. You know this is no good, an old woman living with a husband and wife. Two women inna same kitchen, anna house burns down.
CATHERINE: So I am an old garbage bag, put inna Oh, Catherine, please! Don't make a tragedy. You come to my house where you know you be happier yourself.
MRS. PILLETTI: Oh, Catherine, please! Don't make a tragedy. You come to my house where you know you be happier yourself.
CATHERINE: It pains that they should do this.
MRS. PILLETTI: I know it pains.
CATHERINE: These are the worst years, I tell
MRS. PILLETTI: ( with deep compassion ) Catherine, you are very dear to me. We have cried many times together. When my husband died, I would have gone insane if it were not for you. I ask you to come to my house, because I can make you happy. Please come to my house.
CATHERINE: These are the worst years. I tell you. It's gonna happen to you. I'm afraida look inna mirror. I'm afraid I'm gonna see an old lady with white hair, like the old ladies inna park, little bundles inna black shawl, waiting for the coffin. I'm fifty- six years old. What am I to do with myself? I have strength in my hands. I wanna cook. I wanna clean. I wanna make dinner for my children. Am I an old dog to lie in fronta the fire til my eyes close? These are the terrible years, Theresa! Terrible Catherine, my sister.
MRS. PILLETTI: Catherine, my sister.
CATHERINE: It's gonna happen to you! It's gonna happen to you! What will you do if Marty gets married?! What will you cook? What happen to alla children playing in alla rooms? Where is the noise?! It is a curse to be a widow! A curse. What will you do if Marty gets married?! What will you do?
CATHERINE: ( continuing quietly ) I will put my clothes inna bag, and I will come to you tomorrow.
MARTY: You come up here often?
CLARA: I was up here twice before. Once with a friend of mine and once I came up alone. The last time. do you see that girl in the gray dress sitting over there?
MARTY: Well, the last time I was up here, that's where I sat. I sat there for an hour and a half, without moving a muscle. Now and then, some fellow would sort of walk up to me and then change his mind. I'll never forget just sitting there for an hour and a half with my hands in my lap. Then I began to cry, and I had to get up and go home.
CLARA: Well, the last time I was up here, that's where I sat. I sat there for an hour and a half, without moving a muscle. Now and then, some fellow would sort of walk up to me and then change his mind. I'll never forget just sitting there for an hour and a half with my hands in my lap. Then I began to cry, and I had to get up and go home.
MARTY: I cry a lot too. I'm a big cryer.
CLARA: This is something recent with me, this bursting into tears at the least Oh, I cry all the time, any little thing. My brothers, my brother-in- laws, they're always telling me what a goodhearted guy I am. Well, you don't get goodhearted by accident. You get kicked around long enough, you get to be a real professor of pain. I know exactly how you feel. And I also want you to know I'm having a very good time with you now and really enjoying myself. So you see, you're not such a dog as you think you are.
MARTY: Oh, I cry all the time, any little thing. My brothers, my brother-in- laws, they're always telling me what a goodhearted guy I am. Well, you don't get goodhearted by accident. You get kicked around long enough, you get to be a real professor of pain. I know exactly how you feel. And I also want you to know I'm having a very good time with you now and really enjoying myself. So you see, you're not such a dog as you think you are.
CLARA: I'm having a very good time, too.
MARTY: So there you are. So I guess I'm not such a dog as I think I am.
CLARA: You're a very nice guy, and I don't know why some girl hasn't grabbed you off long ago.
MARTY: I don't know either. I think I'm a very nice guy. I also think I'm a pretty smart guy in my own way.
MARTY: Now I figure, two people get married, and they gonna live together forty, fifty years. So it's just gotta be more than whether they're good looking or not. You tell me you think you're not very good-looking. My father was a really ugly man, but my mother adored him. She told me that she used to get so miserable sometimes, like everybody, you know? And she says my father always tried to understand. I used to see them sometimes when I was a kid, sitting in the living room, talking and talking, and I used to adore my old man, because he was so kind. That's one of the most beautiful things I have in my life, the way my father and mother were. And my father was a real ugly man. So it doesn't matter if you look like a gorilla. So you see, dogs like us, we ain't such dogs as we think we are.
CLARA: I'm twenty-nine years old. How old are you?
MARTY: I'm thirty-four.
MARTY: .you teach chemistry? That's funny. Where? What school?
CLARA: Benjamin Franklin High School.
MARTY: Benjamin Franklin, where's that? Brooklyn? I went to Theodore Roosevelt right up here on Fordham Road. It's right arounna corner from my house. I have a cousin who's a teacher. He teaches Latin. He lives in Chicago. He was studying to be a Jesuit, but he gave it up after his first vows.
MARTY: ( prattling on ) I was pretty good in high school. I sound like a jerk now, but I was pretty good. I graduated with an eighty-two average. That ain't bad. I was accepted at City College. I filled out the application and everything, but my old man died, so I hadda go to work. My best class was German. That was my first language. Der, die, das des, der, des. There you are, I still
MARTY: ( chattering on ) You know what I was good at in high school? I was good in Math. You know how long ago I graduated high school? June, nineteen-thirty-seven. Holy cow! June, nineteen-thirty-seven! What is that? Fifteen, seventeen years ago! Holy cow! Seventeen years ago! Is that right? Seventeen, that's right. Where did it all go? I'm getting old. I'm gonna be thirty- five November eighth. Thirty-five. Wow. Time goes on, boy.
MARTY: Nineteen-thirty-seven. that's right. My old man died December, nineteen-
MARTY: Two o'clock in the morning he died. The doorbell rings, and I knew something was wrong right away. Because my room is onna ground floor inna front, you see, and I got outta bed, and I answered the door.
MARTY: There was Mr. Stern. He had a house down about a block from us. He moved out though. My old man, he used to play cards with him and some other old guys. He's a Jewish feller. So he said, "Is your mother home?" So I knew right away there was something wrong. I was only eighteen, exactly eighteen years old, just the month before. So I said, "Is something wrong, Mr. Stern?" I was in my pajamas, you know? So he said, "Marty, your father died." My father died right inna middle of playing cards, right at the table. He had a heart attack. He had low blood pressure, my old man. He used to faint a lot.
MARTY: Boy, am I talking, I never talked so much in my life. Usually, everybody comes to me and tells me all their troubles. Well, I'm gonna shut up now, and I'm gonna let you get a word in.
MARTY: Seventeen years ago. What I been doing with myself all that time?. Well, I'm talking again. I must be driving you crazy. Mosta the time I'm with a girl, I can't find a word to say. Well, I'm gonna shut up now. Because I'm not like this usually. Usually, I. well, here I go again. I can't shut my mouth. I'm on a jag, for Pete's sake. You'd think I was loaded.
MARTY: I can't shut my mouth. I'm on a jag, for Pete's sake. You'd think I was loaded.
MARTY: I can't stop talking! Isn't this
MARTY: ( with sudden sincerity ) You gotta real nice face, you know? It's really a nice face.
CLARA: Thank you.
MARTY: .so I'm inna kneeling position, and if you ever try shooting a BAR inna kneeling position, you know what I mean. I can't holda steady position. I'm wavering back and
MARTY: .so the guy next to me, he's shooting from the prone position, and he's cross-eyed like I told you. So just then. .so just then I hear five shots go off from the guy next to me.
MARTY: So just then. .so just then I hear five shots go off from the guy next to me.
MARTY: So my target goes down, and a minute later, the flag comes up. I got five bulls-eyes. This cross-eyed guy next to me, he shot five bulls-eyes into my target.
MARTY: .so I said to the sergeant who was checking my score, "Pretty good, eh, Sarge? Five bulls-eyes? So this sergeant, he don't know what happened, he says, "Say, that's all right,
MARTY: Oh, man. So that's what happened. That's how I got the reputation-a being the best shot inna whole battalion. oh, man.
BUCKO: Anything good in there, Mac?
ANGIE: A buncha dogs.
ANGIE: Hey, Marty! Hey, Marty, you in here?!
MARTY: .When I got outta the army, Clara, I was lost. I didn't know what I wanted to do. I was twenny-five years old, what was I gonna do, go back to my old job, forty cents an hour. I thought maybe I go to college under the G.I. Biller Rights, you know? But I wouldn't graduate till I was twenny-eight, twenny-nine years old, even if I made it in three years. And my brother Freddie wanted to get married, and I had three unmarried sisters in an Italian home, that's a terrible thing. And my kid brother Nickie, he's a one got married last week. So I just went to pieces. I used to walk inna streets till three, four o'clock inna mornings. My mother used to be so worried about me. My uncle Mario come over one time. He offered me a job driving his hack onna night shift. He got his own cab, you know. And God forgive me for what I'm gonna say now, but I used to thinka doing away with myself. I used to stand sometimes in the subway, and God forgive me what I'm going to say, I used to feel the tracks sucking me down under the Yes, I know.
CLARA: ( deeply sympathetic ) Yes, I know.
MARTY: I'm a Catholic, you know, and even to think about suicide is a terrible Yes, I know.
CLARA: Yes, I know.
MARTY: So then Mr. Gazzara he was a frienda my father he offered me this job in his butcher shop, and everybody pleaded with me to take it. So that's what happened. I didn't wanna be a butcher.
CLARA: There's nothing wrong with being a Well, I wouldn't call it an elegant profession. It's in a lower social scale. People look down on butchers.
MARTY: Well, I wouldn't call it an elegant profession. It's in a lower social scale. People look down on butchers.
CLARA: I don't.
MARTY: Well, the point is Mr. Gazzara wantsa sell his shop now, because he and his wife are lonely, and they wanna move out to California in Los Angeles and live near their married daughter. Because she's always writing them to come out there. So it's a nice little shop. I handle his books for him, so I know he has a thirty-five percent markup which is not unreasonable, and he takes home net maybe a hundred, hundred and fifty bucks a week. The point is, of course, you gotta worry about the supermarkets. There's two inna neighborhood now, and there's an A&P coming in, at least that's the rumor. Of course, mosta his trade is strictly Italian, but the younger Italian girls, they get married, and they don't stick to the old Italian dishes so much. I mean, you gotta take that into account too.
CLARA: It's my feeling that you really want to buy this shop, Marty.
MARTY: That's true. I do. But I'm gonna have to take outta loan inna bank eight thousand dollars. That's a big note to carry, because I have to give Mr. Gazzara a mortgage, and what I have to weigh is: will it pay off in the end more than I can make onna salary?
CLARA: Marty, I know you for three hours, but I know you're a good butcher. You're an intelligent, sensitive, decent man. I have a feeling about you like sometimes a kid comes in to see me for one reason or another. And some of these kids, Marty, in my classes, they have so much warmth in them, so much capacity. And that's the feeling I get about you.
CLARA: If you were one of my students, I would say, "Go ahead and buy the butcher shop. You're a good butcher."
MARTY: ( not quite trusting the timbre of his voice ) Well, there's a lotta things I could do with this shop. I could organize my own supermarket. Get a buncha neighborhood merchants together. That's what a lotta them are doing.
MARTY: Wadda you think?
CLARA: I think anything you want to do, you'll do well.
MARTY: ( still looking down ) I'm Catholic. Are you Catholic?
CLARA: ( also in a low voice ) Yes, I am.
MARTY: I only got about three bucks on me now, but I just live about eight blocks from here on the other side of Webster Avenue. Why don't we walk back to my house? I'll run in, pick up some dough, and let's step out I really should get home. It's only a quarter of twelve. The clock's right over there.
CLARA: I really should get home. It's only a quarter of twelve. The clock's right over there.
MARTY: It's only a quarter of twelve. The clock's right over there.
CLARA: I really should get home, I told my father. Well, I suppose a little while longer. I wonder if there's any place around here I could put some makeup on.
MARTY: Hey, Mac!
MARTY: You gotta Ladies' Room around here?
PROPRIETOR: Inna back.
MARTY: ( to Clara ) Inna back.
ANGIE: Hey, Lou!
ANGIE: ( loudly ) Hey, Lou!
BARTENDER: ( looking up from opening a batch of beer bottles ) .so I said to her, "Mary.
ANGIE: ( calling to the Bartender ) Marty been in here the last coupla hours or so?
BARTENDER: I ain't seen Marty all night.
ANGIE: ( calling to the Bartender, but even more to himself ) Where is everybody? I been walking around, I can't find anybody.
CLARA: .It's really a fine opportunity for me. But I'm not sure I want to be a department head. It's mostly executive and administrative work. Well, anyway, I told you about my father, and he depends on me a great deal, and.
MARTY: ( still concentrating on his shoelace ) Why don't you just move out to Well, that's what I was saying. My father is getting old. And we're very close. He's a wonderful man,
CLARA: Well, that's what I was saying. My father is getting old. And we're very close. He's a wonderful man,
MARTY: I think you're kidding yourself, Clara. I used to think about moving out, you know? And that's what I used to say. "My mother needs me." But when you really get down to it, that ain't it at all. Actually, you need your father. You know what I mean? You're living at home, and you got your father and mother there, and you can go on like that being a little girl all your life.
CLARA: I'm afraid of being lonely.
MARTY: Oh, you won't be so lonely. You'll make friends right away.
CLARA: Actually, I don't make friends easily.
MARTY: What're you talking about? You're a real likeable person. You'll make friends out there in Portchester one, two, three. You'll have people visiting you alla time. I'll come visit you. I'll borrow my brother Freddie's car, or you can call me up when you feel blue, or I'll call you up. And it's gonna be nice. Don't be so afraid.
RALPH'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) Hey, Marty!
RALPH: ( yelling ) Hey, Marty!
RALPH: Marty! Over here!
MARTY: Hello, Ralph.
RALPH: ( yelling ) Hey, Marty, come over here a minute.
RALPH: ( explaining to girls ) You'll like this guy. This guy's a nice guy.
LEO: Who's this? Marty?
RALPH: ( confirming Ralph's statement ) Oh, this guy's a nice guy.
LEO: ( confirming Ralph's statement ) Oh, this guy's a nice guy.
MARTY: ( approaching the car ) Hello, Ralph, what's new? ( looks through the back window, recognizes Leo ) Hiya, Leo.
LEO: Hiya, Marty.
RALPH: ( indicates with his head that he wishes to hold a whispered conference with Marty ) Hey, Marty, come here a minute.
RALPH: ( lowering his voice ) Hey, Marty, we got an odd squirrel here, you interested?
MARTY: Waddaya mean, Ralph?
RALPH: ( turning his head toward the rear of the car and raising his voice ) Hey, Louise, I want you to meet Marty Pilletti. Marty, that's Louise Kelly, inna back seat there.
MARTY: Louise, not an unattractive girl by any means, is a little surly at the moment. She merely nods at the introduction.
LOUISE: What are we going to do, just sit around here all night?
RALPH: ( addressing Marty's bowed head in a quick mutter ) Listen, Marty, these three squirrels are nurses. We're all going over Leo's house later because there's nobody there. These are the squirrels I told you about. Money inna bank, man. Wanna get inna car? She's a pretty nice-looking doll.
MARTY: I'm with a girl, Ralph.
RALPH: Get ridda her. This is money inna I can't do that, Ralph, because somebody already brushed her off once tonight.
MARTY: I can't do that, Ralph, because somebody already brushed her off once tonight.
RALPH: This is a good deal here, Marty.
MARTY: ( bending down to Ralph ) I can't do it, Ralph. Thanks anyway. ( looks toward back seat ) Very nice to have met you all.
LOUISE: Come on, let's get outta here.
LEO: Hey, Ralph, we might as well get
MARTY: I'll see you, Leo.
LEO: I'll see you, Marty.
MARTY: Wait a minute. Lemme find the light.
MARTY: I guess my mother ain't home yet. I figure my cousin Thomas and Virginia musta gone to the movies, so they won't get back till one o'clock at
MARTY: This is the kitchen.
CLARA: Yes, I know.
MARTY: Come on inna dining room. Siddown, take off your coat. You want something to eat? We gotta whole half-chicken in the icebox.
MARTY: Siddown, take off your coat. You want something to eat? We gotta whole half-chicken in the icebox.
CLARA: ( alighting tentatively on the edge of a chair ) No, thank you. I don't think I should stay very long.
MARTY: Sure. Just take off your coat a So I was telling you, my kid brother Nickie got married last Sunday. That was a very nice affair. And they had this statue of some woman, and they had whiskey spouting outta her mouth. I never saw anything so grand in my And watta meal. I'm a butcher, so I know a good hunka steak when I see one. That was choice filet, right off the toppa the chuck. A buck eighty a pound. Of course, if you wanna cheaper cut, get rib steak. That gotta lotta waste on it, but it comes to about a buck and a quarter a pound, if it's trimmed. Listen, Clara, make yourself comfortable. You're all Oh, I'm fine.
MARTY: So I was telling you, my kid brother Nickie got married last Sunday. That was a very nice affair. And they had this statue of some woman, and they had whiskey spouting outta her mouth. I never saw anything so grand in my And watta meal. I'm a butcher, so I know a good hunka steak when I see one. That was choice filet, right off the toppa the chuck. A buck eighty a pound. Of course, if you wanna cheaper cut, get rib steak. That gotta lotta waste on it, but it comes to about a buck and a quarter a pound, if it's trimmed. Listen, Clara, make yourself comfortable. You're all Oh, I'm fine.
CLARA: Oh, I'm fine.
MARTY: You want me to take you home, I'll take you home.
CLARA: Maybe that would be a good idea.
CLARA: No, Marty, please.
MARTY: I like you. I like you. I been telling you all night, I like you.
CLARA: I just wanna kiss, that's all.
MARTY: I just wanna kiss, that's all.
CLARA: He releases her and turns away violently.
MARTY: He releases her and turns away violently.
CLARA: He releases her and turns away violently.
MARTY: He releases her and turns away violently.
CLARA: He releases her and turns away violently.
MARTY: All right! I'll take you home! All
MARTY: All I wanted was a lousy kiss! What do you think, I was gonna try something serious with my mother coming home any minute!? What am I, a leper or something?!
CLARA: ( more to herself than to him ) I just didn't feel like it, that's
MARTY: I'm old enough to know better. Comes New Year's Eve, everybody starts arranging parties, I'm the guy they gotta dig up a date for. Let me getta packa cigarettes, and I'll take you
CLARA: I'd like to see you again. Very much. The reason I didn't let you kiss me was because I just didn't know how to handle the situation. You're the kindest man I ever met. The reason I tell you this is because I want to see you again very much. I know that when you take me home, I'm going to just lie on my bed and think about you. I want very much to see you
MARTY: ( without looking over at her ) Waddaya doing tomorrow night?
CLARA: I'll call you up tomorrow morning. Maybe, we'll go see a movie.
MARTY: I'll call you up tomorrow morning. Maybe, we'll go see a movie.
CLARA: I'd like that very much.
MARTY: The reason I can't be definite about it now is my Aunt Catherine is probably coming over tomorrow, and I may have to help out.
CLARA: I'll wait for your call.
MARTY: We better get started to your house, because the buses only run about one an hour now.
CLARA: All right.
MARTY: I'll just get a packa cigarettes.
MARTY: Waddaya doing New Year's Eve?
CLARA: They quietly slip into each other's arms and kiss. Slowly their faces part, and Marty's head sinks down upon her shoulder. He is crying, detectable from the slight shake of his shoulders. The girl presses her cheek against the back of his head. They stand. The SOUND of the kitchen door opening splits them out of their embrace. A moment later Mrs. Pilletti's voice is heard.
MRS. PILLETTI: Hello, Marty, when you come home?
MARTY: We just got here about fifteen minutes ago. Ma, I want you to meet Miss Clara Snyder. She's graduate of New York University. She teaches chemistry in Benjamin Franklin High School.
MRS. PILLETTI: Siddown, siddown. You want some chicken? We got some chicken in the ice box.
CLARA: No, Mrs. Pilletti. We were just going home. Thank you very much anyway.
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, siddown a minute. I just come inna house. I'll take off my coat. Siddown a minute.
MARTY: How'd you come home, Ma? Thomas give you a ride?
MRS. PILLETTI: ( nodding ) Oh, it's a sad business. ( turning to Clara ) My sister, Catherine, she don't get along with her daughter-in-law, so she's gonna come live with us.
MARTY: Oh, she's coming, eh, Ma?
MRS. PILLETTI: Oh, sure. Siddown, siddown. Marty, tell her Might as well siddown a minute, Clara.
MARTY: Might as well siddown a minute, Clara.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( to Marty ) Did you offer the young lady some I offered her, Ma, she don't want No, thank you, really, Mrs. Pilletti.
MARTY: I offered her, Ma, she don't want No, thank you, really, Mrs. Pilletti.
CLARA: No, thank you, really, Mrs. Pilletti.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( to Clara with a sigh ) It's a very sad business, I tell you. A woman, fifty-six years old, all her life, she had her own home. Now she's just an old lady, sleeping on her daughter-in-law's couch. It's a curse to be a mother, I tell you. Your children grow up and then what is left for you to do? What is a mother's life but her children? It is a very cruel thing when your son has no place for you in his home.
CLARA: Couldn't she find some sort of hobby to fill out her time?
MRS. PILLETTI: Hobby! What can she do? She cooks and she cleans. You gotta have a house to clean. You gotta have children to cook for. These are the terrible years for a woman, the terrible years.
CLARA: You mustn't feel too harshly against her daughter-in-law. She also wants to have a house to clean and a family to cook for. You don't think my sister Catherine should live in her daughter-in-law's Well, I don't know the people, of course, but as a rule, I don't think a mother-in-law should live with a young couple.
MRS. PILLETTI: You don't think my sister Catherine should live in her daughter-in-law's Well, I don't know the people, of course, but as a rule, I don't think a mother-in-law should live with a young couple.
CLARA: Well, I don't know the people, of course, but as a rule, I don't think a mother-in-law should live with a young couple.
MRS. PILLETTI: Where do you think a mother-in-law should go?
CLARA: I don't think a mother should depend so much upon her children for her rewards in life.
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, maybe that's what they teach you in New York University. In real life, it don't work out that way. You wait till you are a mother.
CLARA: It's silly of me to argue about it. I don't know the people involved.
MARTY: Ma, I'm gonna take her home now. It's getting late, and the buses only run about one an hour.
MRS. PILLETTI: ( standing ) ( standing ) It was very nice meeting you, Mrs. Pilletti. I hope I'll see you again.
CLARA: ( standing ) It was very nice meeting you, Mrs. Pilletti. I hope I'll see you again.
MRS. PILLETTI: Marty and Clara move toward the kitchen.
MARTY: All right, Ma. I'll be back in about an hour, an hour anna half.
MRS. PILLETTI: Goodnight, Mrs. Pilletti.
CLARA: Goodnight, Mrs. Pilletti.
MRS. PILLETTI: Marty and Clara go out through the kitchen. CAMERA STAYS on Mrs. Pilletti, who stands expressionlessly by her chair, staring after them. She remains there rigid even after the kitchen door has OPENED and SHUT.
ANGIE: STREET OUTSIDE A DEPARTMENT STORE. In front of Alexander's Department Store, the street is crowded, and a bus queue waits for the downtown Concourse bus. Marty and Clara are part of the queue.
ANGIE: ( starting toward Marty and Clara, shouting )
ANGIE: ( shouting as he goes ) Hey, Marty! Hey!
ANGIE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) Hey, Marty! Marty!
ANGIE: Where you been, for Pete sakes?! I been looking all over for you.
MARTY: I looked for you, Angie, before I cut out, but I couldn't find you.
ANGIE: I been looking all over for you!
MARTY: What happened, Angie, was that we thought we were just gonna go for a short walk, and then we thought we were gonna come right back, but we got to talking. Listen, Angie, I want you to meet Clara. Clara, this is my best friend, Angie. I told you about him.
CLARA: How do you do?
ANGIE: ( completely ignoring Clara now ) Waddaya gonna do now?
MARTY: I'm gonna take Clara home. It's close to one.
ANGIE: You want me to ride down with you?
MARTY: What for?
ANGIE: It's early.
MARTY: It must be one o'clock.
ANGIE: It's Saturday night! There's still plenty-a action around!
MARTY: Angie, by the time I get Clara home, it's gonna be one, one-thirty. By the time I get home, it's gonna be two o'clock. I gotta get up for ten o'clock mass tomorrow.
ANGIE: ( as he goes ) All right, I'll see you!
MARTY: ( calling after him ) Where you going?
MARTY: ( calling more loudly after him ) I'll see you tomorrow after mass!
MARTY: You got an elevator in this house?
CLARA: We just live one flight up.
MARTY: So I'll call you tomorrow.
CLARA: Clara leans against the iron banister of the stairway.
CLARA: Call me about two-thirty, because I won't be home from my aunt's till about then.
MARTY: Okay, so I'll see you tomorrow night
CLARA: Marty turns and moves across the lobby toward the street OUTSIDE THE APARTMENT HOUSE. Marty stands a moment in the clear black night air, expressionless, but within him, a strange exhilaration is beginning to stir. He mosies away from the building along the sidewalk, CAMERA panning with him. He strikes out suddenly with a spirited stride, as if he knew where he was going.
MARTY: Taxi! Taxi! Hey, taxi! Taxi! Taxi!
MARTY: Taxi!. Taxi!.
VIRGINIA: ( heavy whisper ) Don't you think I feel lousy about this too?
THOMAS: All right, Ginnie. I don't wanna talk anymore about it. I don't think I got one hour's sleep the whole night. Last night was the first time in my life I ever heard my mother cry, you know that?
VIRGINIA: ( snapping ) I don't wanna talk about it!
THOMAS: ( snapping ) I don't wanna talk about it!
THOMAS: ( continuing, huffy ) I know what you're gonna say. A man's gotta stop being his mother's baby sooner or later. How many times you gonna say it? She's my mother, you know. I oughta have some feelings about her, don't you think?
VIRGINIA: Why do you always put me inna position of being the louse?
THOMAS: ( in a furious whisper ) Virginia, I don't wanna hear no more about it!
VIRGINIA: Tommy, I love you, and I know you feel lousy right now, but we're never gonna be happy unless we have a chance to work out our own lives. We can't keep talking in whispers like this the resta our lives. We gotta have some privacy. We.
THOMAS: ( scowling ) Can't you wait five minutes? I'll drive you over inna car. I just gotta put my shirt on, that's all.
THOMAS: All right, get dressed, because we're gonna drive my mother over. Why couldn't you get along with her?! Why couldn't you make just a little effort?! She's a little hard to get along with! All right! All I asked you was try a little.
VIRGINIA: ( roaring out ) I don't wanna hear anymore about it, you hear me?
THOMAS: ( roaring out ) I don't wanna hear anymore about it, you hear me?
THOMAS: Hello, Aunt Theresa.
MRS. PILLETTI: Hello, Thomas, how do you feel?
THOMAS: ( setting the bag down ) Ah, my mother, she drives me crazy. I hadda beg her to let me drive her over here. The martyr. She always gotta be the big martyr.
CATHERINE: Hey, will you go to mass, please. This one, he woke up this morning with salt in his nose. Do this! Do that! Will you leave me in peace,
MARTY: ( ebulliently ) Hello, Aunt Catherine! How are you? Hello, Thomas. You going to mass with us?
CATHERINE: I was at mass two hours ago.
MARTY: Well, make yourself at home. The refrigerator is loaded with food. Go upstairs, take any room you want. Thomas, you going to mass with us?
THOMAS: ( nods ) Yeah, yeah, sure. ( to Catherine ) You wanna cuppa coffee?
MRS. PILLETTI: ( to Catherine ) You wanna cuppa coffee?
MARTY: Boy, beautiful day, hey, Thomas?
THOMAS: Sure, great if you ain't married.
MARTY: Hi, Virginia.
MARTY: ( to baby ) Hey, little boy, you sure getting fat. You weigh more than a side-a beef now. ( beams at the baby ) Hey, Thomas, so I was telling you yesterday you was over my house Mr. Gazzara, my boss, so he wantsa sell his shop, go out to California because his kids are all married, and he. Wadda you so sore about?
THOMAS: Wadda you so sore about?
VIRGINIA: Oh shaddup, will you do me a favor?
MARTY: So Thomas, he does about twelve, thirteen hundred gross. Rent's a hundred and two. The problem, of course, is the supermarkets. That's what I wanna ask you. If I get together with a coupla other merchants, make our own supermarket.
THOMAS: What about the time she wanted to make an old-fashioned Italian dinner for my brother, but you wouldn't let Waddaya talking about?!!
VIRGINIA: ( with her own temper ) Waddaya talking about?!!
THOMAS: Once a month you couldn't let her use the kitchen!
VIRGINIA: I told her she could use the kitchen any time she wanted.
THOMAS: .You hadda be the boss inna kitchen alla time!
VIRGINIA: She don't wanna use my pots and pans!
MARTY: So Tommy.
VIRGINIA: Waddaya want me to do, go out and buy a whole new setta pots and pans?!
MARTY: Tommy, gimme a coupla minutes, because I promised Mr. Gazzara I'd let him know tomorrow. See, what I wanna know, Tom, if a buncha individual retail merchants get together, how does it operate? On individual mark- ups? You know what I mean? Say I'm the butcher and Aldo Capelli, he's the dairyman and grocer, so suppose I mark up thirty-five percent, but he works on forty, so.
THOMAS: Waddaya talking about, do you know what you're talking about?
MARTY: No, I don't know. That's why I'm asking you.
THOMAS: Take the baby, will you?!
THOMAS: Wadda you wanna buy a shop for, will you tell me? You gotta good job, you got no wife, you got no responsibilities. Boy, I wish I was you, boy. Waddaya wanna tie yourself down with a shop? What's he want? Five thousand down? You're gonna have to carry a mortgage sixty, seventy bucks a month. A mortgage anna note from the bank. For Pete's sake, you're a single man with no responsibilities. Stay that way, boy. Take my advice.
MARTY: Well, you see, Thomas I figure the big problem is the supermarkets. But Patsy's shop, that's a specialized trade. The supermarkets don't carry Italian meat.
THOMAS: Who buys Italian meat anymore? You think my wife buys Italian meat? She goes to the A&P, picks up some lamb chops wrapped in cellophane, opens up a canna peas, and that's dinner, boy.
VIRGINIA: Sure, all you wanna eat is that greasy stuff your mother makes.
MARTY: Well, I understand the problem about the supermarkets, but I was talking to this girl last night, and she made the point that a likeable personality is a valuable business Marty, see that my mother is nice and comfortable, eh?
THOMAS: Marty, see that my mother is nice and comfortable, eh?
MARTY: Sure. This girl said.
THOMAS: What girl, what does she know? Why don't you let her hold the baby once in a while?! Your mother, boy, she wantsa take the kid for a day, that's fine!
VIRGINIA: ( her temper flaring again ) Your mother handles the kid like he was a yoyo!
MRS. PILLETTI: Hey, I come home from your house last night, Marty was here with a Your son Marty?
CATHERINE: MRS. PILLETTI
MRS. PILLETTI: Your son Marty?
CATHERINE: Your son Marty?
MRS. PILLETTI: Well, what Marty you think is gonna be here in this house with a girl?
CATHERINE: Were the lights on?
MRS. PILLETTI: Oh sure. This girl is a college graduate.
CATHERINE: They're the worst. College girls are one step from the streets. They smoke like men inna saloon. My son Joseph, his wife, you know, she types onna typewriter. One step from the streets, I tell you. Mrs. Pilletti ponders this philosophy for a moment.
MRS. PILLETTI: That's the first time Marty ever brought a girl to this house. She seems like a nice girl. I think he has a feeling for this girl. You heard him sing. He been singing like that all morning.
CATHERINE: Well, that's all. You will see. Today, tomorrow, inna week, he's gonna say to you, "Hey, Ma, it's no good being a single man. I'm tired-a running around." Then he's gonna say, "Hey, Ma, wadda we need this old house? Why don't we sell this old house, move into a nicer parta town? A nice little apartment?"
MRS. PILLETTI: I don't sell this house, I tell you that. This is my husband's house. I had six children in this house.
CATHERINE: You will see. A coupla months, you gonna be an old lady, sleeping onna couch in her daughter-in-law's house.
MRS. PILLETTI: Catherine, you are a blanket of gloom. Wherever you are, the rain follows. Someday, you gonna smile, and we gonna declare a holiday.
MARTY: Hello, Ma, waddaya say, it's getting a little late.
MRS. PILLETTI: Marty goes to the sink to get himself a glass of water. He examines a piece of plaster that has fallen from the ceiling.
MARTY: Boy, this place is really coming to You know, Ma, I think we oughta sell this place. The whole joint's going to pieces. The plumbing is rusty. Everything. I'm gonna have to replaster the whole ceiling now. You know what we oughta do? We oughta get one of those new apartments they're building down on Southern Boulevard. A nicer parta town, you know?.You all set, Ma? I'm all set.
MRS. PILLETTI: I'm all set.
MRS. PILLETTI: That was a nice girl last night, She wasn't a very good-looking girl, but she looks like a nice girl. I said, she wasn't a very good-looking girl. not very pretty.
MARTY: ( still amiable ) I heard you, Ma.
MRS. PILLETTI: She looks a little old for you. About thirty-five, forty years old?
MARTY: She's twenty-nine, Ma.
MRS. PILLETTI: She's more than twenty-nine years old, Marty. That's what she tells What, Ma?
MARTY: What, Ma?
MRS. PILLETTI: She looks thirty-five, forty. She didn't look Italian to me.
MRS. PILLETTI: I said, is she Italian girl?
MARTY: I don't know. I don't think so.
MRS. PILLETTI: She don't look Italian to me. What kinda family she come from? There was something about her I didn't like. It seems funny, the first time you meet her, she comes to your empty house alone. These college girls, they all one step fromma streets.
MARTY: What are you talking about? She's a nice girl.
MRS. PILLETTI: She didn't look Italian to me.
MRS. PILLETTI: I don't like her.
MARTY: You don't like her. You only met her for two minutes.
MRS. PILLETTI: Don't bring her to the house no more.
MARTY: What didn't you like about her?
MRS. PILLETTI: I don't know! She don't look like Italian to me. Plenny a nice Italian girls around.
MARTY: Well, let's not get inna fight about it, Ma.
MARTY: ( stopping her before she gets started ) What are you getting so worked up about? I just met the girl last night. I'm probably not gonna see her again.
MARTY: Hello, Lou, Angie come in yet?
BARTENDER: He was here last night till about two o'clock. I hear you really got stuck with a dog last night.
MARTY: ( glancing quickly at him ) Who told you that?
BARTENDER: Angie. He says she was a real scrawny- looking thing.
MARTY: She wasn't so bad.
MARTY: Hello, Ralph. How'd you make out with those nurses last night, Ralph?
RALPH: ( looking up ) Oh man, you shoulda come with us last night, Marty. That one for you was a real lunatic. How'd you make
MARTY: Oh, I hadda nice time.I didn't try nothing. She's a nice girl. I just met her last night, you know. I just talked with her. I didn't even try Listen, you see Angie, tell him I went home, I'll meet him after lunch.
MARTY: Listen, you see Angie, tell him I went home, I'll meet him after lunch.
JOE: .so the whole book winds up, Mike Hammer, he's inna room there with this doll. So he says, "You rat, you are the murderer." So she begins to con him, you know? She tells him how she loves him. And then Bam! He shoots her in the stomach. So she's laying there, gasping for breath, and she says, "How could you do that?" And he says, "It was easy."
LEO: ( without looking up from his magazine ) Boy, that Mickey Spillane, boy he can write.
MARTY: We gotta whole pot inna kitchen. We give you a plate-a your own.
ANGIE: Oh, I couldn't eat nothing. My mother just stuffed me right up to the jaws. What I like about Mickey Spillane is he knows how to handle women. In one book, he picks up a tomato who gets hit with a car, and she throws a pass at him. And then he meets two beautiful twins, and they throw passes at him. And then he meets some beautiful society leader, and she throws a pass at him, and.
JOE: What I like about Mickey Spillane is he knows how to handle women. In one book, he picks up a tomato who gets hit with a car, and she throws a pass at him. And then he meets two beautiful twins, and they throw passes at him. And then he meets some beautiful society leader, and she throws a pass at him, and.
LEO: Boy, that Mickey Spillane, he sure can write.
ANGIE: Listen, somebody turn onna ballgame. It must be after one o'clock by now.
ANGIE: Who you gonna call?
MARTY: I was gonna call that girl from last night. Take her to a movie tonight.
ANGIE: Are you kidding?
MARTY: Listen, Angie, I wanna tell you, you were very impolite last night. I introduced you to the girl, you just turned and walked off. Now, why did you do that?
ANGIE: You got me mad, that's why. Hey, Joe, show Marty that picture.
MARTY: Put that away, for Pete's sake. My mother's right out onna porch.
JOE: I wonder where they find those girls that pose for them pictures.
LEO: Those are Hollywood starlets.
MARTY: Put it away, Joe. My mother'll come walking in.
ANGIE: Marty, let's go downna Seventy-Second Street area tonight.
MARTY: I don't feel like going, Angie. I thought I'd take this girl to a movie.
ANGIE: Boy, you really musta made out good last night.
MARTY: We just talked.
ANGIE: Boy, she musta been some talker. She musta been about fifty years old.
JOE: I always figure a guy oughta marry a girl who's twenny years younger than he is so that when he's forty, his wife is a real nice-looking doll.
LEO: That means he'd have to marry the girl when she was one year old.
JOE: I never thoughta that.
MARTY: I didn't think she was so bad-looking.
ANGIE: She musta kept you inna shadows all Marty, you don't wanna hang around with dogs. It gives you a bad Let's go downa Seventy-Second Street.
RALPH: Marty, you don't wanna hang around with dogs. It gives you a bad Let's go downa Seventy-Second Street.
ANGIE: Let's go downa Seventy-Second Street.
MARTY: I told this dog I was gonna call her today about two-thirty.
ANGIE: ( angry ) Brush her. Listen, you wanna come with me tonight, or you wanna go with this dog?
MARTY: Waddaya getting so sore about?
ANGIE: I looked all over for you last night, you know that?
JOE: Another book that I read by Mickey Spillane, I can't remember the name of it, but it was about this red- headed tramp he finds inna street, and he gives her some dough, because he's sorry for her. Wait a minute, I think that's the same book I was telling you about before.
MARTY: ( to Angie ) You didn't like her at all?
ANGIE: A nothing. A real nothing.
JOE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) You know something.? ( off-screen ) .I can't tell one-a those Mickey Spillane books from the other, but he's a real good writer, though.
JOE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) .I can't tell one-a those Mickey Spillane books from the other, but he's a real good writer, though.
MRS. PILLETTI: So what are you gonna do tonight, I don't know, Ma. I'm all knocked out. I think I'll just hang arounna house and watch.
MARTY: I don't know, Ma. I'm all knocked out. I think I'll just hang arounna house and watch.
MARTY: Maybe, I'll go out and see what Angie and the boys are doing.
LEO: What time is it?
JOE: About eight o'clock.
ANGIE: ( to George ) You don't feel like going downna Seventy-Second Street?
GEORGE: It'll take an hour anna hour back, and the whole evening's gone.
JOE: What's playing on Fordham Road? I think there's a good picture in the Loew's Paradise.
GEORGE: You guys feel like working up a game- a cards?
ANGIE: Come on, let's go down Seventy-Second Street, walk around. We're sure to wind up with something.
JOE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) I'll never forgive LaGuardia for cutting out burlesque outta New York ( off-screen ) There's a burlesque in Union City. Let's go over to Union City.
GEORGE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) There's a burlesque in Union City. Let's go over to Union City.
ANGIE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) Yeah, you're the one who don't even wanna take a ride onna subway for half an hour. Now, you wanna go alla way over to Union City.
GEORGE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) I feel like playing cards. I saw Richie Rizzo, that's what he said he felt like doing.
JOE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) I don't feel like playing cards. Waddaya feel like doing tonight, ( off-screen ) I don't know. Wadda you feel like ( off-screen ) I don't know, Angie. Wadda you feel like doing?
ANGIE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) I don't know. Wadda you feel like ( off-screen ) I don't know, Angie. Wadda you feel like doing?
JOE'S VOICE: ( off-screen ) I don't know, Angie. Wadda you feel like doing?
MARTY: "What are you doing tonight?". "I don't know, what are you doing?!".
MARTY: ( continuing ) The burlesque! Loew's Paradise! Miserable and lonely! Miserable and lonely and stupid! What am I, crazy or something?! I got something good here! What am I hanging around with you guys for?!
ANGIE: Watsa matter with you?
MARTY: You don't like her. My mother don't like her. She's a dog, and I'm a fat, ugly little man. All I know is I hadda good time last night. I'm gonna have a good time tonight. If we have enough good times together, I'm gonna go down on my knees and beg that girl to marry me. If we make a party again this New Year's, I gotta date for the party. You don't like her, that's too bad.
MARTY: ( his old amiable self ) When you gonna get married, Angie? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? You're thirty-three years old. All your kid brothers are married. You oughta be ashamed of yourself.
MARTY: Hello. Clara?.
THE END: Writers : Paddy Chayefsky
