JACK: ( Absently ) Thankee Killick
BLAKENEY: In. It was here. The line is in.
CALAMY: In. It was here. The line is in.
BLAKENEY: In. It was here. The line is in.
CALAMY: It was there. It was out. Out
BLAKENEY: In. Tell him Boyle. It was in I say.
HOLLAR: Lights out!
CREWMEN: Watch there! Watch
WATCH CAPTAINS: - Lifebuoy all's well! - Starboard gangway all's well! - Starboard bow all's well!
JACK: How I do hate a lee shore
PULLINGS: You think we'll have long to wait?
JACK: ( shrugs ) Intelligence reports had her leaving Boston on the 12th, that should put us at least a week ahead.
PULLINGS: She'll be in for a surprise, Sir.
JACK: In for a "Surprise". Now that's wit. "In for a Surprise". 'Pon my word I shall have to tell the Doctor.
PULLINGS: I'll try not to, Sir.
JACK: What do you have there, Stephen?
STEPHEN: The breastbone of a frigate bird. Do you remark its prodigious strength.
JACK: I do and I am not in the least surprised, for it reminds me of nothing so much as a ship under sail. See here the bowsprit. Here the mast, and here the backstays running aft.
STEPHEN: ( adds another weight ) Ten pounds sixteen ounces. I am preparing a paper for the Royal Society.
JACK: I was thinking when our business here is finished, we will have to put in to Recife for provisions. You may care to take a tour round the forests of Brazil, botanizing and collecting specimens. An anaconda or two. A giant cassowary.
STEPHEN: I should like it of all things, Jack.
JACK: Killick! Killick there! Strong coffee, and light along my topcoat.
QUARTERMASTER: Six bells and all's well.
CALAMY: Four knots, Sir.
BONDEN: Oi reckon as she's liftin' Sir, if you feels like putting your éad down.
VINCENT: Starboard gangway ahoy.
HOLLOM: What is it, Vincent?
VINCENT: I heard something. A bell.
HOLLOM: Native fisherman perhaps. ( shouts ) Mr. Calamy!
HOLLOM: Well. It can't have been a reef marker.
CALAMY: Enemy on the larboard bow! Beat to
28. FORECASTLE: JACK and PULLINGS join HOLLOM.
JACK: Where away?
CALAMY: Not two miles distant, Sir.
JACK: Mr. Hollom?
HOLLOM: I saw nothing, nor heard anything either. Shall I ask them men to stand down?
JACK: Lie down! Everybody lie down!
34. DELETED: 35. DELETED. 36. QUARTERDECK The broadside hits the bows and a cloud of splinters and metal scythes the length of the deck at head height. This is rapidly followed by billowing smoke from a small fire now burning on the forecastle. CALAMY is working at putting the fire out as JACK issues a stream of orders.
36. QUARTERDECK: The broadside hits the bows and a cloud of splinters and metal scythes the length of the deck at head height. This is rapidly followed by billowing smoke from a small fire now burning on the forecastle. CALAMY is working at putting the fire out as JACK issues a stream of orders.
JACK: Run out the guns! Marines to the tops, and get that wounded man below!
HOLLOM: .C-cast loose now. Um swab. That's right. Run out your guns.
DAVIES: Shot. There's no shot!
JACK: Note the time Mr. Watt.
PULLINGS: She's out of our range, Sir!
JACK: Closer, Mr. ALLEN. You must lay me alongside her at pistol-shot.
PULLINGS: Fire on the uproll.
OLD SPONGE: ( In Greek ) Never seen the like of it
DOUDLE: Never seen the like of it
PULLINGS: Damn and blast you! See to your guns! Fire high! Fire for the masts and
STEPHEN: More sand on the floor, Mr. Higgins!
DAVIES: Wood and Lead! Mr Nagel! Mr Lamb!!
45. STAIRS: Follow DAVIES as he runs up to the gun-deck with the shot under his arms past the powder-monkeys ADDISON and SWIFT, canisters of gun-powder slung over their shoulders, then he sees MR. LAMB, the carpenter.
DAVIES: Orlop! We're holed!
CALAMY: Davies! Get those bodies overboard! Mr. Hollom sir!
JEMMY DUCKS: Aye, sir!
BLAKENEY: More shot! More cartridge!
JACK: .wait WAIT! And FIRE!
BONDEN: By all that's holy what is that ship made
51. COMPANIONWAY: JACK is half-way up the ladder when he falls, scored across the forehead by a musket-ball. Eyesight blurred. Hearing gone. He is dimly aware of small arms cracking above his head, and someone trying to lift him.
JACK: Belay there ye poxed son of a whore!
MOWETT: You must go below, Sir, you must let me help you below!
53. QUARTERDECK: JACK emerges into bloody chaos: screams of the wounded all around, the enemy ship moving astern in mist and gun-smoke. He wipes blood from his eye as he raises his telescope.
PULLINGS V.O: Jack lowers his telescope. Pullings' expression spells
PULLINGS: It's the rudder.
BONDEN: ( shouts up ) It's shot away below the waterline!
58. COCKPIT: STEPHEN, up to his armpits in blood, operating on a wounded man, looks up to see three more seriously injured men He pauses, aware of some change.
STEPHEN: Why are we not firing?
FASTER DOUDLE: No steerage.
NEHEMIAH SLADE: We're fish in a barrel
60. QUARTERDECK: JACK is joined by ALLEN as the enemy vessel starts crossing their wake.
ALLEN: He's coming about, Sir.
MOWETT: Should I strike the colours?
ALLEN: I'm afraid there's nothing else for it.
JACK: Damned if there ain't. We'll tow her.
PULLINGS: Sail trimmers away, Warley, make what sail you can!
JACK: Stern-chasers to fire when she's in
MOWETT: 65A. MAINMAST WARLEY, captain of the maintop, directs his men about the mare's nest of rigging, getting a tattered top-sail to fill with what little breeze there is.
65A. MAINMAST: WARLEY, captain of the maintop, directs his men about the mare's nest of rigging, getting a tattered top-sail to fill with what little breeze there is.
WARLEY: Sharp now with that fancy-line! To the clew line from the reef points, Cully, double up and run her back again!
66. QUARTERDECK: Through PULLINGS' telescope: the enemy ship coming straight at them, her guns now getting the range of the Surprise.
PULLINGS: She's gaining on us.
JACK: Start the water, carronades over the
69. FORECASTLE: JACK races to the bows. Towlines strain as the three small boats pull the great ship toward the curtain of fog and cloud. He yells to the straining oarsmen -
JACK: Pull! Pull for your lives.
71. WIDE: to see the Surprise slipping into the cover of fog and low cloud, only her top masts visible, before they too disappear.
72. QUARTERDECK: JACK joins his officers looking back into the white-out, in the direction of the enemy.
JACK: Quiet now. No calls, no shouts. Mr. ALLEN, signal the men in the boats to head due east.
BONDEN: ( urgent whisper ) Starboard haul. And stroke! Stroke!
PULLINGS: He's beating inshore.
JACK: Keep rowing
ALLEN: I believe we've lost her, Sir.
JACK: Pass the word to ship oars
LAMB: Three feet of water in the hold, Sir, but the pumps are keeping it from gaining.
JACK: Very good, Mr. Lamb.
JACK: ( sotto ) What's the butchers bill?
STEPHEN: Six dead, thirteen wounded. Your head .
JACK: ( Brushes him away )
STEPHEN: ( sotto ) A severe depressed fracture of the skull. I am not sure he will see out the
JACK: Mr. Blakeney?
BLAKENEY: Just a broken arm, Sir.
STEPHEN: I will do everything possible. I know you were close to his father.
JACK: Its a scratch.
STEPHEN: I will tell you if its a scratch or not. Sit down.
JACK: How did he find us Stephen? Seven weeks sailing and he happened in darkness on our exact position. Its uncanny. He really is a phantom
STEPHEN: Unless she was alerted to our presence, and looking for us.
JACK: Tosh. How could that be?
STEPHEN: The French have their spies, in Britain as elsewhere. You're saying there are traitors in the I am saying do not imagine it was a lone privateer who did this to us. He is working for Napoleon himself, with access to all that tyrant commands, overtly and covertly. So do not let defeat weigh too heavily upon you.
STEPHEN: I am saying do not imagine it was a lone privateer who did this to us. He is working for Napoleon himself, with access to all that tyrant commands, overtly and covertly. So do not let defeat weigh too heavily upon you.
ALLEN: .Call her a frigate? Ha! You ask me she's no more a frigate than a painted Dutchman. More like a ship of the line, a two-decker more'n a frigate.
MOWETT: One does wonder what manner of hull she has. Our balls seemed to bounce right off
PULLINGS: She had the weather-gauge and long eighteens which could hit us beyond our effective range. That's the sum of it
ALLEN: And 40 guns to our 28, I counted the muzzle flashes.
PULLINGS: It was an unfair match, no dishonor in defeat no dishonor at all.
ALLEN: ( sighs ) Well, we can patch up our main and mizzen the foresail is too far gone so we'll bend our spare.
PULLINGS: Jack finally turns.
ALLEN: At Port Royal we can haul her into dry- dock, and hopefully get her home We're not going home.
JACK: We're not going home.
ALLEN: With respect, Captain, she could be half- way to Cape Horn by the time we're
JACK: ( sternly ) Then there's not a moment to lose.
DAVIES: Can we catch her is the question. And if we do what's different? She'll just hold us off with them long eighteens til she sends us all to the bottom. All for what?
DOUDLE: I'll tell you for what, matey. She's a privateer, loaded with all the gems of Araby. Think of the gold. Think of the Hoi there! You men jump to it!
HOLLAR: Hoi there! You men jump to it!
HOLLAR: Heave. And heave. Handsomely now. One long pull. Belay!
JACK: Have her placed along the gunwale for now, Mr. Hollar, and the guns moved to that side also.
FASTER DOUDLE: All clear below!
JACK: Damn this wind, Mr. Pullings! The Acheron will be making a hundred and fifty miles a day in this.
PULLINGS: Aye, but hugging the coast, and stopping to board the odd merchantman
LAMB: Down. Down. Stop.
OLD SPONGE: ( In Greek ) The smaller bit. No. That bit there.
BLAKENEY: No. No. Not through my nose!
CALAMY: Its alright. William. You were dreaming. Joe Plaice told me when you die they sew you up in your hammock with the last stitch through your nose. to make sure you're not just sleeping
BLAKENEY: Joe Plaice told me when you die they sew you up in your hammock with the last stitch through your nose. to make sure you're not just sleeping
CALAMY: You know old Joe, always telling [ ] Is it true though? [ ] About the last Come on, you'll be stitching me in mine Not through my nose. You'll tell them.
BLAKENEY: Is it true though? [ ] About the last Come on, you'll be stitching me in mine Not through my nose. You'll tell them.
CALAMY: Come on, you'll be stitching me in mine Not through my nose. You'll tell them.
CALAMY: ( nods ) Nor any other part of you.
CALAMY: Is it mending, sir?
STEPHEN: No, I'm afraid it will not do.
BLAKENEY: No. Mamma. Mamma.
STEPHEN: It is the laudanum speaking. You will be a regular Nelson.
BLAKENEY: Peter? Is that you? I dreamed they cut my arm off.
CALAMY: You would have died else.
STEPHEN: No, that is just blood. These are his
SLADE: Physician he is, not one of your common Cured Prince Billy of the marthambles and the strong fives, wouldn't look at you for under ten guineas on land.
FASTER DOUDLE: Cured Prince Billy of the marthambles and the strong fives, wouldn't look at you for under ten guineas on land.
DAVIES: [ ] Knows his birds and beasts too boyo, show him a beetle and he'll tell you what it's thinking.
JACK: Let us be off, Mr. Allen!
ALLEN: Weigh anchor! All hands to make sail. Mr
HOLLOM: Bear a hand there you fellows! Up and down Sir, thick and dry for
MOWETT: Up and down Sir, thick and dry for
HOLLAR: Cheerly there in the foretop, our T'garnsl sheets! Hands to the braces!
JACK: Speed, Mr. Boyle
BOYLE: Ten and a half knots, Sir.
KILLICK: Here we go again: scrape, scrape, screech, screech and never a tune you could dance to, not if you were drunk as Davey's sow.
STEPHEN: Is that one I know, or are we breaking new ground?
JACK: I am trying to remember that air they played all those years ago at the Governors house in Port Mahon. You remember When we first met. Corelli if I'm not mistaken.
STEPHEN: If that is your "A" you are very much so. This is A.
JACK: Or Locatelli. pom pom pom pom
STEPHEN: All I remember is you being unable to sit in your seat the entire performance.
JACK: Aye and you practising apon that poor bishop with your "puddings athwart the starboard Gumbrils" or some such arrant No. That was off Toulon, during the blockade. At our first meeting they played this:
STEPHEN: ( laughs ) No. That was off Toulon, during the blockade. At our first meeting they played this:
JACK: No. No. Entirely off the mark. pom-pom- POM I have now
STEPHEN: ( enjoying the game ) Or was it something like this..
JACK: And pitch 'em up! It's spars and rigging we want!
MOWETT: Three minutes ten, Sir.
JACK: Not good enough! We must fire three broadsides to her two. Again!
BLAKENEY: As you will. Sir.
JACK: 'Spitfire', hop to it.
PULLINGS: 122. AND AGAIN - NIGHT It's a race. JACK's orders are just a formality, the sequence having become so automatic now.
JACK: Out Tompions. Run out your guns.
MOWETT: One minute forty-nine, Sir!
JACK: Killick? Killick there.
KILLICK: Which it's, Soused Hoggs-Face.
JACK: Aah! My favorite.
PULLINGS: With your permission, Sir, Mr. Mowett has composed a short poem in honour of our Let's hear it, Mr. Mowett.
JACK: Let's hear it, Mr. Mowett.
MOWETT: Our brotherhood, some old, some new. In blood baptized, in strength renewed. In purpose unified and true. All thoughts of home forsaken. Where duty leads us, there we go. Nor rest nor comfort shall we know. Until the unrepentant foe, is boarded sunk or taken
ALL: ( raising their glasses ) Aye! Capital! Well said! Hear him, hear him! 'Sunk or taken'.
JACK: Aye and when we do take her we shall give her to Tom Pullings as his first command. If he don't die before then. Bumpers up 'To wives and sweethearts'.
ALLEN: ( A toast ) 'To wives and sweethearts'.
ALL: 'To wives and sweethearts'.
PULLINGS: And may they never meet. I believe you knew Nelson, Sir?
JACK: Lord Nelson? Yes. I had the honour of serving under him at the Nile. Mr. Mowett, the bottle stands by you, In fact I dined with him twice, and he spoke to me on both occasions.
MOWETT: ( raising his glass ) To Lord Nelson.
ALL: Lord Nelson!
JACK: You see those two weevils, Doctor? I do.
STEPHEN: I do.
JACK: Which would you choose?
STEPHEN: There is not a scrap of difference. They are the same species of curculio.
JACK: But suppose you had to choose?
STEPHEN: Then I would choose the right-hand weevil, it has a perceptible advantage in both length and breadth.
JACK: There I have you. You are completely dished. Don't you know in the Navy you must always choose 'the lesser of two
ALLEN: 'Pon my life. He who would pun would pick a pocket. Dýe not smoke it doctor?
STEPHEN: ( poker faced ) Sure there would be some poor thin barren minds that would catch at such a paltry
PLAICE: ".And the righteous shall inherit the
BONDEN: You hear that. He said something. Joe spoke! Say something else Joe
JOE: Handy with that gasket
BONDEN: ( shouts up to the quarterdeck ) He spoke doctor. Joe plaice spoke
131. QUARTERDECK: The officers have appeared on deck with their coffee and Stephen raises a hand in acknowledgment.
MIDSHIPMEN: Our captain was very good to us. He dipped his prick in phosphorus. It shed a light all through the night. And steered us through the Bosphorus.
133. QUARTERDECK: JACK pretends not to have heard, but he can't hide his smile. Beside him in a chair sits BLAKENEY, his empty jacket sleeve pinned to his front 'Nelson' style, laughing incredulously at the older boys cheek. From somewhere on the forecastle, WARLEY and his top-men start singing.
HOLLOM: For we've received orders to sail for Old Perhaps we shall never more see you again
STEPHEN: What a wonderfully true voice Mr. Hollom does possess.
ORRAGE: Come all you thoughtless young men, A warning take by me, And never leave your happy homes to sail the raging sea.
ALLEN: This one's by Colnett, Sir. He travelled with Captain Cook and carried a pair of Arnott's chronometers.
KILLICK: Couple of the men to see you, Sir.
JACK: ( without looking up ) Show them in.
NAGEL: It were Warley's idea, Sir.
WARLEY: I thought she were familiar like, then I remembered where I'd seen her - in Boston, during the Peace.
JACK: [ ] In Boston? Yes, Sir. She's Yankee built. I seen them working on her, something right strange about her scantlings. Then I seen them balls bounce off her an' I got to If you look here, Sir. One side opens up.
NAGEL: If you look here, Sir. One side opens up.
WARLEY: Mister Nagel here done it just like I seen her - a third layer 'tween the outer and inner ribbing - diagonal bracing, see?
JACK: Just like the U.S. Constitution - our 12 pounders couldn't penetrate except at close range.
KILLICK: ( shaking his head ) Which I was saving for Saluting Day, Sir.
JACK: Rouse it up, Killick, and a bottle for Mr. ALLEN and me. Let us live whilst we're alive!
STEPHEN: He says they were chased for three days till they finally our-ran her. Forty gun French privateer headed due south.
JACK: Capital. Thank him and let us be off.
STEPHEN: A Spanish farewell. "May no new thing arrive." New things being generally by their nature bad.
BLAKENEY: Do you have a manual of exercises sir.
STEPHEN: Physical exercises, to make the left arm as powerful as the right once was.
BLAKENEY: Physical exercises, to make the left arm as powerful as the right once was.
STEPHEN: I think that will happen with usage, at least to a certain extent.
BLAKENEY: But not completely. I will never be whole again, will I?
STEPHEN: No but you will adapt to your new The natural world shows us any number of examples of how that is possible.
BLAKENEY: You know my father was a great fighting captain. It was always his expectation I would follow in his footsteps. I worry that with this arm I will now be good for nothing but book learning and philosophy.
STEPHEN: Ah. Like me you mean.
BLAKENEY: ( becoming tearful ) I cannot use a sextant, cannot tie a knot or climb the rigging. Cannot even dress myself. What chance to I have now of even making first lieutenant.
STEPHEN: You have every chance. You hear me every chance. Only the other day I heard the captain singing your praises. Your courage, your fortitude in battle, your skill at logarithms and double elevations whatever they may be. And when you are rated lieutenant you shall have someone to tie your bootlaces for you. Aye and help you with your jacket. Here take my handkerchief. I believe we are summonsed to dinner.
WARLEY: Sail on the larboard bow!
JACK: Where away?
PULLINGS: Hull down, two points off the larboard
JACK: Set studdingsails and top gallants. Then wet the sails and have the idlers placed along the rail.
BLAKENEY: Is it him, Sir?
JACK: Touch wood, Mr. Blakeney. And I fancy she plans to out-run us. Ask Dr. Maturin to join us, he loves a good chase.
MOWETT: Lifelines fore and aft!
JACK: Speed, Mr. Calamy?
CALAMY: Twelve knots, Sir!
JEMMY DUCKS: We're cracking on, eh?
FASTER DOUDLE: We'll be cracking off presently if he doesn't watch it.
SLADE: No, he knows this ship. He knows what she can take.
PULLINGS: We can just see her topsails. She's made her turn westwards.
LAMB: I can't vouch for the mizzen Sir, not round Cape Horn.
JACK: I'll not lose her now. Set a course
JACK: Mr Hollar, rig preventer backstays. Warps and light hawsers to the mastheads.
PULLINGS: What, Sir?
HIGGINS: You reckon Captain will keep chasing him 'round the Horn with every stitch of canvas flying?
DAVIES: I reckon he'd chase him to the gates of hell if he has to.
PLAICE: And that's where we're all going if he doesn't take in sail.
JACK: Strike the topgallants.
BONDEN: Man overboard!
JACK: Swim for the wreckage, man!
BONDEN: She's broaching!
PULLINGS: It's acting as a sea-anchor! We must cut it loose, Sir!
JACK: AWKWARD DAVIES scrambles up the ladder with an axe, but loses his footing and falls sprawling over the quarterdeck. JACK grabs the axe and attacks the ropes. He's joined by NAGEL who has run to assist before realizing that the man overboard is his friend Warley.
KILLICK: He's been at it again.
BLACK BILL: Who's that then?
KILLICK: The Jonah.
BLACK BILL: What Jonah?
STEPHEN: The deaths in actual battle are the For my own part - those who die under the knife or from some consequent infection: I have to remind myself that it is the enemy who killed them, and not me. Warley was a casualty of war, as surely as if a French ball had taken him.
STEPHEN: You know that I wear two hats on every voyage. I am the captains particular friend and supporter, but also I am the ships doctor in which later capacity I am party to..
JACK: ( stiffly ) On the contrary. I insist on it.
STEPHEN: There is talk below decks of turning back. Or rather that we should have turned back some weeks ago. Of course the men would follow "Lucky Jack" anywhere, and usually in the confident expectation of victory. But that of course is the What is the problem?
JACK: What is the problem?
STEPHEN: That you are not accustomed to defeat Jack. That you have taken it too personally. That chasing this larger, faster ship, with its long guns, is beginning to smack of pride 'which goeth before destruction'?
JACK: It's not pride nor anything like it, it's a question of duty.
STEPHEN: 'Duty', ah yes. The naval signal for end of discussion.
JACK: You can be as 'satiric' as you like, Stephen, but I have my orders. She is attacking our whalers. For why? Without whales we have no boot polish, nor any soap, nor oil for our lamps, not to oil our sabres and muskets. Destroying our whalers could win the war for Napoleon. Which is why we must catch this Acheron. As a man of learning surely you can see At whatever the cost?
STEPHEN: At whatever the cost?
JACK: Any whatever cost I choose to pay. And I will calculate that myself, Stephen without reference to your friends in the ward room.
HOLLOM: Cast off.
JACK: We'll have to go further south, get around this bloody west wind.
PULLINGS: How far south?
JACK: As far as is necessary, Mr. Pullings. The sixtieth parallel if need be.
MOWETT: Then we upon the globes last verge shall go to view the ocean leaning on the sky from thence our rolling neighbours we shall know and on the hidden world securely pry!
HOLLAR: Rise and shine! Show a leg there, tumble up, tumble up - sleepers awake!
JACK: Praise be. At last.
STEPHEN: Pray what is there to celebrate?
JACK: We have made our turn northward, Doctor. We are headed back toward the sun.
KILLICK: Which I was just coming.
JACK: Gentlemen, I give you. our destination.
STEPHEN: The Galapagos Islands.
PULLINGS: 'Pon my word so it is. Look: here's Narborough, Chatham and Hood.
JACK: That's where the whalers are, ain't it Mr Allen. So that's where the Acheron will be headed.
JACK: Best bowers chipped. Lot of rust on these forechains. black strake needs another coat.
KILLICK: That engagement off Recife: his whole gun crew killed and him not a mark on him. Soon as he went up the mizzen mast Warley falls. And whose watch was it when we lost our wind?
TROLLOPE: One glass per man, sir, Captain's orders.
STEPHEN: A mere thimbleful, Corporal, for scientific purposes only.
STEPHEN: Show me where these Doldrums lie?
JACK: Stephen. Will we never make a sailor of you? The doldrums is a condition, not a region. But you tend to strike 'em .between the trades, and the sou'easterlies. I hope the Acheron is having it as bad as we are.
STEPHEN: Assuming he is heading for the Galapagos, and not some other point in all this Come. I'd have thought you'd be delighted to go there. It is said to be a natural In truth I'd be delighted with the merest guano stained rock provided it didn't sway beneath my feet
JACK: Come. I'd have thought you'd be delighted to go there. It is said to be a natural In truth I'd be delighted with the merest guano stained rock provided it didn't sway beneath my feet
STEPHEN: In truth I'd be delighted with the merest guano stained rock provided it didn't sway beneath my feet
JACK: Well, we'll take on food and water once we're there, and as compensation for not having put ashore in Brazil I pledge that during that time, several days at least, you can wander at will, catching bugs and beetles to your heart's delight. You will be the first naturalist to set foot on the islands. That is my solemn promise
STEPHEN: I accept, provided the men have not mutinied and thrown us all overboard before we get there.
JACK: Mutiny? No. They are already counting their share of the prize money.
STEPHEN: Another week of this and they shall gladly give it up for a glass of clean Ach, Stephen. Stephen. Pray stop your bellyacheing. We shall have rain presently, and if not we shall damned well tow ourselves out of this.
JACK: Ach, Stephen. Stephen. Pray stop your bellyacheing. We shall have rain presently, and if not we shall damned well tow ourselves out of this.
HOLLOM: Stroke. Stroke. I heard he were on the Fair Marion as foundered off Tresco. And he were on the Zephyrus what exploded at Trafalgar.
BONDEN: M-a-s-t. mast
STEPHEN: Is that man completely mad? Mr. Howard, a petrel is not good eating!
HOWARD: Were you never a man for sporting, Doctor? Why you could shoot all day in these waters with two men loading!
CALAMY: ( the final choice ) All right, come on Addison.
WILLIAMSON: ( the final choice ) All right, come on Addison.
CALAMY: ( the final choice ) All right, come on Addison.
WILLIAMSON: ( the final choice ) All right, come on Addison.
CALAMY: ( the final choice ) All right, come on Addison.
WILLIAMSON: It's tails. We attack.
BLAKENEY: Ow ow ow!
WILLIAMSON: Let go of him.
CALAMY: Let go of him.
WILLIAMSON: CALAMY can't drag the bigger boy off. He whips a pistol out of his belt and fires it at WILLIAMSON's head. WILLIAMSON is blasted sideways, clutching his face and yelling in pain. The other boys separate, horrified.
CALAMY: It's just powder. There wasn't a ball in it, just powder.
BLAKENEY: Angrily shaking free of him, he looks to where Jack stood, but the captain is no longer watching.
CALAMY: What's wrong? I saved you.
BLAKENEY: I didn't need to be saved.
JACK: Master at arms! Take that man below and clap him in irons. Mr. Pullings, defaulters at six bells.
JACK: The man pushed past you without making his obedience. And yet you said nothing.
HOLLOM: No, Sir, I intended to but the right words just didn't.
JACK: 'The right words'? He failed to salute you. It's deliberate insubordination.
HOLLOM: They don't like me, Sir.
JACK: They what? Speak up, man! I've tried to get to know the men a bit, Sir, be friendly like, but they've taken a set against me. Always whispering when I go past, giving me looks. But, I'll set that to rights, be tougher on them from now on.
HOLLOM: I've tried to get to know the men a bit, Sir, be friendly like, but they've taken a set against me. Always whispering when I go past, giving me looks. But, I'll set that to rights, be tougher on them from now on.
JACK: You can't make 'friends' with the foremast jacks, they'll despise you in the end. Nor do you need be a tyrant. It's leadership they want, strength, I'm very sorry, Sir.
HOLLOM: I'm very sorry, Sir.
JACK: You're what twenty-three, twenty-four?
HOLLOM: ( smiling weakly ) Twenty-five next Friday.
JACK: You've failed to pass for lieutenant twice. You can't spend the rest of your life as a midshipman.
HOLLOM: I'll try harder, Sir.
JACK: Well, it's an unfortunate business, Hollom. Damned unfortunate.
JACK: 'Article Thirty-Six. All other crimes not capital, committed by any person or persons in the fleet. shall be punished according to the laws, and customs, of the sea.' Mr. Nagel, you're an old man-of-war's man and yet you failed to salute an officer. You knew what you were doing. Have you anything to say in your defence?
NAGEL: No, Sir.
JACK: Have his officers anything to say for
HOLLAR: Seized up, Sir.
JACK: One dozen. Bosun's mate, do your duty.
JACK: Red hell.
STEPHEN: I was merely remarking that you have always prided yourself on not being a flogging captain and this.
JACK: I am not a "flogging captain". I have not once rigged the grating on this voyage, not once in twelve thousand miles. Besides, I wager you will find a deal more brutality on land.
STEPHEN: I'm not a party to it on land.
JACK: Well you are party to it on my ship. Men must be governed. Often not wisely I grant you, but there are hierarchies even in nature, as you've often said yourself.
STEPHEN: Hierarchies. That is the excuse of every tyrant in history. Of Nero. Of Boneparte.
JACK: ( trying to call a halt ) Yes. Fine words I'm sure
STEPHEN: ( continues regardless ) .We are not animals and I for one am opposed to authority, that egg of misery and oppression..
JACK: Very fine words Stephen, but In these current circumstances, hard-work and firm discipline is what keeps our little wooden world together.
STEPHEN: And grog I suppose.
JACK: Of course. What of it? Of course they have their grog! You know Nagel was drunk when he insulted Hollom. And Higgins is never sober. Even the midshipmen.
JACK: The men will have their grog Stephen. It is part of the immemorial tradition of the service
STEPHEN: Well a shameful tradition it is too. To have them pressed from their homes, kept in a permanent state of dull inebriation.
JACK: .confined for months in a wooden prison, Never more than a few hours sleep and flogged when drunken idleness drives them to.. .Stephen! I warn you that friend or no I will not have you talk of the service like that.
STEPHEN: .confined for months in a wooden prison, Never more than a few hours sleep and flogged when drunken idleness drives them to.. .Stephen! I warn you that friend or no I will not have you talk of the service like that.
STEPHEN: I am stating plain facts
JACK: ( finally explodes ) Well I will not hear them! From you or anyone. You understand! Things are as they are for good or bad whether or not they have a place in your damned papist philosophy. If you are here to make music then sit down and play. If not be gone, for you have come to the wrong shop for anarchy!
BLAKENEY: Are you all right, Hollom?
CALAMY: He's not sick. He's useless. He's just dodging work. Oh shut up Calamay. What do you know about anything?
PLAICE: Beg your pardon, your honour, but Mr. Howard just shot a sea-monster!
HOWARD: Doctor! The very man.
STEPHEN: Mr. Howard, let me beg you, if the men can't eat it or I can't dissect it, please do not shoot every creature you
KILLICK: What did I tell you? The ship's accursed.
JACK: What is that abominable noise, for God's I have no idea, Sir.
PULLINGS: I have no idea, Sir.
MOWETT: You don't think it's the Acheron, Sir?
JACK: ( untypically cutting ) The enemy cannot come on us without a wind, Mr. Mowett. What do you make of it, Doctor?
STEPHEN: I'm sure I've never heard the like.
JACK: [ ] Creature?
STEPHEN: [ ] A manatee. A sea-elephant possibly. Though I have never known one with a cry like this. Bosun. Fire off some flares.
JACK: Bosun. Fire off some flares.
JACK: Sergeant, what the devil are you thinking of? Turn the glass and strike the bell.
MOWETT: Perhaps some poor shipwreck?
JACK: Padeen. What are you doing on the
BLACK BILL: Duppies make that noise. See. They know all about this in Africa.
DOUDLE: What's a duppie?
BLACK BILL: That Warley. Swallow by a fish. Spirit can't get out. Him duppie now.
SLADE: Captain don't even know what that noise
DOUDLE: Doctor neither, and he knows everything.
KILLICK: Joe here's got the most experience in these matters, and new brains to boot, let's hear it from Joe.
PLAICE: It's the Jonah causing it. That howling thing is a signal to the Phantom-Ship. He's calling it up, don't you see? Every time he's on watch the ship appears. You wait and see, the ghost-ship will appear any time tonight, and take us all straight to the hot-place.
JACK: You don't think.? It's Mr. Hollom, sir, you better come
STEPHEN: Mr Hollom. Sir. Try to contain yourself. Hold his head. Mr Hollom. Padeen
JACK: There's nothing physically wrong with him. He thinks he's been cursed by the Then he probably has been. Sailors will abide a great deal, but never a Jonah. It's like a white crow - the others peck it to death.
STEPHEN: There's nothing physically wrong with him. He thinks he's been cursed by the Then he probably has been. Sailors will abide a great deal, but never a Jonah. It's like a white crow - the others peck it to death.
JACK: Then he probably has been. Sailors will abide a great deal, but never a Jonah. It's like a white crow - the others peck it to death.
STEPHEN: A 'Jonah'? My God, you believe it too.
JACK: I desired to save you the trouble of looking for a cure. No doubt it will all be sorted by the morning.
BLAKENEY: Mr. Hollom! You gave me such a start. Are you better now?
HOLLOM: Much better, thank you.
BLAKENEY: I think the creature is going away.
HOLLOM: I am sure of it.
BLAKENEY: Man overboard!
JACK: The fact is, [ ] not all of us become the men we once hoped we might be. But we are all God's creatures. If some of us thought ill of Mr. Hollom, or spoke ill of him, or failed him in respect of fellowship, then we ask your forgiveness, Lord, and we ask for his.
BONDEN: Strike eight bells. Turn the glass and strike the bell.
BLAKENEY: Give you joy, sir! We have raised the
DOUDLE: Wot? There must be wimmun. T'ain't
STEPHEN: How extraordinary.
BLAKENEY: What, sir?
STEPHEN: Those birds!
BLAKENEY: The dragons don't seem to bother 'em.
STEPHEN: They are a type of iguana I should think, and therefore vegetarian.
BLAKENEY: Will you catch one?
STEPHEN: Yes. Most certainly. And if we can, some I mean the great lizards.
BLAKENEY: I mean the great lizards.
STEPHEN: Recognizing how superficially dull the birds are to BLAKENEY's untutored eye, by contrast with giant lizards.
BONDEN: Ha! There's one going for a swim.
STEPHEN: No. Iguanas are land animals.
BONDEN: Not these ones.
JACK: All hands about ship!
NEHEMIAH SLADE: By your leave sir, by your leave. Helms a'lee - off tacks and sheets - mainsail haul!
HOGG: God bless you. Thank you, shipmates.
HOGG: We was coming back for fresh lines, hid in that inlet, yonder. Black-three master. Bit beamy and raised in the
ALLEN: ( cuffs him ) No swearing on the quarterdeck.
JACK: ( waves ALLEN away ) Go on.
HOGG: .Then they burnt our bloody ship and headed off, bunch of fugging pirates.
JACK: And her course?
HOGG: Maybe a point south of west. Following the rest of the whaling fleet. Mr. Mowett, these men to be entered on the ship's books. Mr. Allen, lay a course west sou'west.
PULLINGS: Should we not take on fresh supplies, Sir? Those tortoises. There's not a moment to lose, Mr.
STEPHEN: Have you forgotten your promise?
JACK: ( not looking up ) Subject to the requirements of the service, Stephen. I could not in all conscience delay for the sake of an iguano or a. giant peccary - interesting no doubt, but of no immediate How can you dismiss, out of hand, the bounty of nature? Knowledge that. that will help to progress. I can see nothing on shore that will progress our mission. But how can we possibly know what lies [ ] on these islands, perhaps some knowledge that may save life, that. I will tell you how to save lives Stephen. Inform me how to guide this ship, undetected, under the nose of a 40 gun frigate. That is the job in hand sir.
STEPHEN: Well perhaps there's an opportunity to serve both our objectives. As I understand it you mean to go round the end of this long island, then start your voyage. I could walk across it, be on the other side long before.
STEPHEN: I see. So after all this time in your service I must simply be content to form part of this belligerent expedition, hurry past inestimable wonders, bent solely on destruction.
JACK: .you forget yourself, sir.
STEPHEN: No Jack, You have forgotten your self. You once believed in the rights of each individual man no matter how useless or lowly. But it seems to me now that the long exercise of power has brought you to the point where even a solemn promise.
JACK: The promise was conditional.
STEPHEN: .a promise to a friend of ten years standing who has stood by you and supported you.. I command a King's ship, not a private .across half the worlds oceans often at risk to his own life
STEPHEN: .across half the worlds oceans often at risk to his own life
JACK: .and we have no time for your damned hobbies, sir!
BLAKENEY: Sir, I found a curious beetle walking on the deck.
STEPHEN: I'm sure of it.
BLAKENEY: Were you to have walked all day on the island, you might never have come across That is more than likely, sure.
STEPHEN: That is more than likely, sure.
BLAKENEY: You can have it.
STEPHEN: Thank you, Mr. Blakeney.
KILLICK: No music? That's a shame
JACK: Yes, Killick. Just the one.
ALLEN: Martha's vineyard.
HOGG: No, this here's from Boston. I was married there once.
ALLEN: Any road, it's a Yankee barrel.
HOGG: What they call a Bedford Hog in New The Acheron touched at Boston.
HOGG: And it's not been in the water more than a week.
ALLEN: One can't say with any accuracy but.
HOGG: Yes you can. There's no sea chummer on it, and the dowels is sound.
JACK: Continue due west, Mr. Bonden.
PLAICE: Have you seen the bird, doctor?
STEPHEN: I have not - no bird these many days. What kind of a bird?
PLAICE: A sort of albatross I believe, or perhaps a prodigious great mew. He has been following the ship since. there he is, crossing our wake!
HOWARD: My God, man! I'm so sorry. The bird dropped low. I didn't see you there!
JACK: Calamy! Get Higgins! Padeen, Davies, carry the Doctor below.
STEPHEN: It's all right, I am quite capable of
STEPHEN: You will just make it worse. by prodding, Mr. Higgins, it cannot be got at. except by opening me up.
JACK: Are you equal to the task?
HIGGINS: I'll need to read up on the Doctor's books, like. Study some pictures he has, get my bearings. Be better on land, but I'll manage somehow.
JACK: You men get about your business.
JEMMY DUCKS: .sail on the horizon, sir. Hull down, running west. It may be a couple of days before we can catch her.
PULLINGS: It might be the Acheron. If we put on more sail we'd come up with her before
MOWETT: ( shouts outside ) Davies! Slade!
STEPHEN: Tell me this wasn't on my account?
JACK: ( dead pan ) No. It was because of Higgins. ( beat ) Can't have him poking around in your belly without a solid platform to work
JACK: All set, Higgins?
STEPHEN: Not Higgins. I do this with my own hand.
STEPHEN: ( To Jack ) [ ] You are sure you have a head and a stomach for this kind of thing? My dear Doctor, I have seen blood and wounds since I was a little boy.
STEPHEN: Then hold my belly, pressing firmly when I give the word.
HIGGINS: Aye, she'll patch up nicely, sir.
STEPHEN: Easy away, Jack. Handsomely with the retractor. Higgins, look to the Captain, while I swab.
STEPHEN: My goodness, what is this?
BLAKENEY: Well sir, Padeen and I have been doing some collecting for you. The beetles each come with a specimen of plant they were found on. Ooops. Catch him, Padeen! There he goes.
STEPHEN: 'Pon my word you have the makings of a true naturalist.
BLAKENEY: Well sir, perhaps I could combine them, and be a kind of Fighting-Naturalist, like yourself?
STEPHEN: Shall we take a tour of your aviary?
BLAKENEY: Should you really be up?
STEPHEN: Yes. Padeen!
JACK: Oh, a week perhaps. There is no great But surely, we must make haste for the It may not have been the Acheron that we sighted. Nor can we be sure of her No, I think we shall go home now, before peace breaks out with France, God forbid. But how will it sit with the Admiralty? To have spent six months in a fruitless pursuit and then come home empty-handed?
STEPHEN: But surely, we must make haste for the It may not have been the Acheron that we sighted. Nor can we be sure of her No, I think we shall go home now, before peace breaks out with France, God forbid. But how will it sit with the Admiralty? To have spent six months in a fruitless pursuit and then come home empty-handed?
JACK: It may not have been the Acheron that we sighted. Nor can we be sure of her No, I think we shall go home now, before peace breaks out with France, God forbid. But how will it sit with the Admiralty? To have spent six months in a fruitless pursuit and then come home empty-handed?
STEPHEN: But how will it sit with the Admiralty? To have spent six months in a fruitless pursuit and then come home empty-handed?
JACK: "Empty-handed"? Not a bit of it. What about these plants and animals which Blakeney has been collecting? The British museum will need an entire new wing for
STEPHEN: I fear, Jack, you have burdened me with a debt I can never repay. Tosh. Name a shrub after me. Something prickly and hard to eradicate.
JACK: Tosh. Name a shrub after me. Something prickly and hard to eradicate.
STEPHEN: A shrub? I shall name a giant tortoise: Testudo Aubreii!
BLAKENEY: Doctor, would you think it very unscientific of me to ride on the back of one of those tortoises.
STEPHEN: No, Mr. Blakeney. I would think it an experiment of absolutely vital importance. But afterwards, I do desire to find that flightless cormorant, assuming that is what it is, and that I still have strength enough to catch it.
BLAKENEY: Sir, you must hurry!
STEPHEN: A moment! You're a worse tyrant than any ship's captain.
BLAKENEY: You must carry him, Padeen!
JACK: I forgot to ask you - did you see your
STEPHEN: I did not. My greatest discovery was your Indeed it was, I'm sorry.
JACK: Indeed it was, I'm sorry.
STEPHEN: ( waving the magnifying glass ) Not a bit of it. William and I made a unique discovery.
JACK: A phasmid?
BLAKENEY: It's an insect disguised as a stick.
JACK: Mr. Hollar, rouse up all the yellow paint we have. I want six men with brushes slung over the side.
DOUDLE: JACK hands him a piece of paper with a sketch on it.
JACK: Get your sail makers working on this. Sixty yards by five yards with an eyelet every seven feet.
DOUDLE: Aye, Sir.
JACK: ( to HOGG ) Have Nagel patch it up and light a fire in it. ( shouts ) Mr. Calamy!
CALAMY: Aye, Sir.
JACK: Once we're underway, replace some of the sails with the oldest, most patched set we have.
CALAMY: They'll be in the afterhold, Sir. I'll need some men to move all the clutter.
JACK: Good. Spread it around the foredeck. The more mess the better.
CALAMY: Haul away!
HOGG: There, Sir. A mainmast toplight.
JACK: You've got good eyes, Hogg.
STEPHEN: I see. A wolf in sheep in sheep's A phasmid, doctor. It was you what gave me the idea.
JACK: A phasmid, doctor. It was you what gave me the idea.
STEPHEN: I'm not sure a phasmid can be a predator.
JACK: No? Well this one is.
CALAMY: Thank you.
BLAKENEY: You'll make lieutenant out of this.
BOYLE: He already has. 'Acting' 3rd Lieutenant Peter Calamy.
BLAKENEY: [ ] Then I'll see you at the forecastle, That's not your station.
CALAMY: That's not your station.
BLAKENEY: But naturally I'll board with you?
CALAMY: I'm sorry, Will. Captain's orders.
RYE: She's seen us!
MOWETT: She's asking us to heave to. Shall I give the order?
JACK: No, make a show of fleeing upwind, but panicky and disorganized, like a whaler might do.
JACK: ( to Mowett ) Run up Portuguese colours. ( then down to the gun-deck ) Load, Mr. Pullings. Triple shot 'em.
BLAKENEY: May I speak with you, Sir.
JACK: No saluting, Mr. Blakeney, we're whalers Mr. Calamy says I am not in the boarding party, I wanted to say -
BLAKENEY: Mr. Calamy says I am not in the boarding party, I wanted to say -
JACK: ( interrupts ) I know what you want to say and my answer is no. I promised your mother I would return you in one piece and I have already failed her on that score. You will command a gun and then retire to defend the quarterdeck here with Dr. But sir - Go to your station, Mr. Blakeney.
BLAKENEY: But sir - Go to your station, Mr. Blakeney.
JACK: ( plus the men ad lib ) We're a long way from home. ( Right you are, Captain! ) A long way from anywhere, ( Too true! ) But if Britain rules the waves she rules these waves too. ( Right she does! ) And the blow we shall deal for his Majesty here will be felt just as keenly ( I'll say it will ) aye - and cheered just as loudly ( 'specially by the wimmin! ) - as any dealt at Trafalgar or Cape St. Vincent.
CALAMY: Three cheers for the Captain. Huzzah huzzah huzzah!
KILLICK: I took the liberty, Doctor.
STEPHEN: [ ] Thank you, Killick.
JACK: Mr. Mowett? [ ] A poem might be in
MOWETT: A poem, Sir?
JACK: ( apologetic ) .they were only people of the merchant service, of-course, Sir.
MOWETT: ( apologetic ) .they were only people of the merchant service, of-course, Sir.
JACK: We have her Mr. Mowett. Strike the Portuguese colours and run up the Jack. Mr. Pullings. Canvas off the gun-ports, and run 'em out. Mr. Howard? Marines away
JACK: Helm's a lee!
JACK: Run us down her larboard side then cut across her wake! Hold fire Mr Pullings! Hold till we're broadside on!
JACK: Fire as she bears! Every gun to concentrate on her mainmast!
PULLINGS: On the uproll! Fire for the mainmast as you sight her!
JACK: Now Mr Bonden! Hard a'starboard!
JACK: Fire at will!
JACK: Lay me alongside!
JACK: Boarders away!
CALAMY: Look to our quarter-deck!
JACK: Where is your captain? Ou est votre
JACK: Le Capitaine? Where is he?
DOCTOR: Il mávait prie de vous donner ceci.
CALAMY: He's dead, sir.
CALAMY: I'll do it.
JACK: John Henry ALLEN. Joseph NAGEL. William Horner. Stephen Winston Boyle. and Lieutenant William Blakeney We therefore commit their bodies to the deep, looking for the resurrection of the body, when the sea shall give up her
ALL: The bodies in their weighted hammocks slide into the sea.
JACK: Signal. 'Parole prisoners You mean Lieutenant Pullings, Sir?
WILLIAMSON: You mean Lieutenant Pullings, Sir?
JACK: No. Captain Pullings.
RYE: ..then 'Rendezvous Portsmouth. God- speed, Captain Pullings.'
STEPHEN: Shall we begin?
STEPHEN: Maybe you did.
JACK: While I was tending the prisoners they told me their doctor died of fever, two weeks ago. There was no doctor on that ship when we boarded it. And I doubt you will find one there now.
STEPHEN: While I was tending the prisoners they told me their doctor died of fever, two weeks ago. There was no doctor on that ship when we boarded it. And I doubt you will find one there now.
KILLICK: That's the last of the cheese and like as not they'll leave it seizing to their plates with their tweedly tweedly Killick? KILLICK THERE! Which it will be ready when it's ready!
JACK: You're still missing your cormorant. flightless eh.well then. It will still be there when we come back
