THE MATRIX: Written by Larry and Andy Wachowski April 8, 1996
COMPUTER SCREEN: So close it has no boundaries. A blinking cursor pulses in the electric darkness like a heart coursing with phosphorous light, burning beneath the derma of black-neon glass. A PHONE begins to RING, we hear it as though we were making the call. The cursor continues to throb, relentlessly patient, until
SCREEN: Call trans opt: received. 2-19-96 13:24:18 REC:Log>
SCREEN: Trace program: running. The entire screen fills with racing columns of numbers. Shimmering like green-electric rivets, they rush at a 10- digit phone number in the top corner.
TRINITY: Only two thin digits left.
SCREEN: Trace complete. Call origin:
BIG COP: Police! Freeze! The room is almost devoid of furniture. There is a fold- up table and chair with a phone, a modern, and a powerbook computer. The only light in the room is the glow of the Sitting there, her hands still on the keyboard, is TRINITY; a woman in black leather.
BIG COP: Get your hands behind your head! Trinity rises.
BIG COP: Hands behind your head! Now! Do She slowly puts her hands behind her head.
AGENT SMITH: Oh shit.
LIEUTENANT: Oh shit.
AGENT SMITH: Lieutenant, you were given specific orders
LIEUTENANT: I'm just doing my job. You gimme that Juris-my dick-tion and you can cran it up your ass.
AGENT SMITH: The orders were for your protection. The Lieutenant laughs.
LIEUTENANT: I think we can handle one little Agent Smith nods to Agent Brown as they start toward the I sent two units. They're bringing her down now.
LIEUTENANT: I sent two units. They're bringing her down now.
AGENT SMITH: No, Lieutenant, your men are dead.
FIRES: A head explodes. In blind panic, another airs his gun, the barrel, a fixed black hole And FIRES Trinity twists out of the way, the bullet missing as she reverses into a roundhouse kick, knocking the gun away. The cop begins to scream when a jump kick crushes his windpipe, killing the scream as he falls to the ground. She looks at the four bodies.
TRINITY: EXT. CHASE HOTEL Agent Brown enters the hotel, while Agent Smith heads for the alley.
TRINITY: Morpheus! The link was traced! I don't know how.
TRINITY: Are there any agents?
TRINITY: MORPHEUS ( V.O. ) You have to focus. There is a phone. Wells and Laxe. You can make it. She takes a deep breath, centering herself.
TRINITY: All right
COP: Motherfucker that's impossible! They stare, slack-jawed, as Agent Brown duplicates the move exactly, landing, rolling over a shoulder, up onto one knee. Just below the building are the runbling tracks of riveted steel. The TRAIN SCREECHES beneath her, a rattling blur of gray metal. Trinity junps, landing She looks back just as Agent Brown hurls through the air barely reaching the last car Agent Brown stands, yanking out a gun. Trinity is running hard as BULLETS WHISTLE past her head. Ahead she sees her only chance, 50 feet beyond the point where the train has begun to turn, there is A window; a yellow glow in the midst of a dark brick Trinity zeroes in on it, running as hard as she can, her speed compounded by the train. The SCREAM of the STEEL rises as she nears the edge where the train rocks into the Trinity hurtles into the empty night space, her body leveling into a dive. She falls, arms covering her head The whole world seems to spin on its axis And she crashes with an EXPLOSION of GLASS and WOOD, then falls onto a back stairwell, tumbling, bouncing down stairs bleeding, broken But still alive. Through the smashed window, she glimpses Agent Brown, still on the train, his tie and coat whipping in the wind; stone-faced, he touches his ear piece as the train slides him past the window. Trinity tries to move. Everything hurts.
TRINITY: Get up, Trinity. You're fine. Get up just get up! She stands and limps down the rest of the stairs.
AGENT SMITH: Did you get anything from the Their next target. The name is The handset of the pay phone lays on the ground, separated in the crash like a severed limb.
AGENT JONES: Their next target. The name is The handset of the pay phone lays on the ground, separated in the crash like a severed limb.
AGENT SMITH: We'll need a search running.
AGENT JONES: It's already begun. We are SUCKED TOWARDS the mouthpiece of the phone, CLOSER and CLOSER, UNTIL the smooth gray plastic spreads out like a horizon and the small HOLES WIDEN until we fall through one Swallowed by the darkness that becomes A computer screen. We are on-line, inside a chat room called "The Matrix." It is an exklusive web-site where hackers hang out.
SCREEN: JACKON: I heard Morpheus has been on this board. SUPERASTIC: Morpheus doesn't even exist and the Matrix is nothing but an advertising gimmick 4 a new TIMAXE: All I want to know is Trinity really a girl? LODIII: 87% of all women on line are really men. QUARK: The Matrix is a euphemism for the government. SUPERASTIC: No, The Matrix is the system controlling our lives. TIMAXE: You mean MTV. SUPERASTIC: I mean Sega.
NEO: Fuckin' idiots don't know shit. He finishes his cereal and is about to disconnect when an anonynous message slices onto the screen.
SCREEN: Do you want to know what the Matrix is, Neo? Neo is frozen when he reads his name.
SCREEN: SUPERASTIC: Who said that? JACKON: Who's Neo? GIBSON: This is a private board. If you want to know, follow the white rabbit.
NEO: What the hell.
SCREEN: TIMAXE: Someone is hacking the FOS4: It's Morpheus!!!!! JACKON: Identify yourself. Knock, knock, Neo. A chill runs down his spine and when someone KNOCKS on his door he almost jumps out of his chair. He looks at the door, then back at the computer but the message is gone. He shakes his head, not completely sure what happened. Again, someone knocks. Cautiously, Neo approaches the door.
NEO: What do you want, Anthony?
ANTHONY: I need your help, man. Desperate. They got me, man. The shackles of He holds up the red notice that accompanies the Denver You got the money this time? He holds up two hundred dollars and Neo opens the door. Anthony's girlfriend, DUJOUR, stops in front of Neo.
NEO: You got the money this time? He holds up two hundred dollars and Neo opens the door. Anthony's girlfriend, DUJOUR, stops in front of Neo.
DUJOUR: You can really get that thing off, right now?
ANTHONY: I told you, honey, he may look like just another geek but this here is all we got left standing between Big Brother and the New World Order.
ANTHONY: Look at 'em. Automatons. Don't think about what they're- doing or why. Computer tells 'em what to do and they do it. Thc banality of evil. He slaps the money in Neo's hand.
ANTHONY: Thanks, neighbor.
DUJOUR: Why don't you come to the party with us?
NEO: I don't know. I have to work Come on. It'll be fun. He looks up at her and suddenly notices on her black leather motorcycle jacket dozens of pins: bands, symbols, slogans, military medals and A small white rabbit. The ROOM TILTS.
DUJOUR: Come on. It'll be fun. He looks up at her and suddenly notices on her black leather motorcycle jacket dozens of pins: bands, symbols, slogans, military medals and A small white rabbit. The ROOM TILTS.
NEO: Yeah, yeah. Sure, I'll go.
TRINITY: Hello, Neo.
NEO: How did you know that
TRINITY: I know a lot about you. I've been wanting to meet you for some time.
NEO: Who are you?
TRINITY: My name is Trinity.
NEO: Trinity? The Trinity? The Trinity that cracked the I.R.S. Kansas City D-Base?
TRINITY: That was a long time ago.
NEO: I just thought. you were a guy.
TRINITY: I just thought. you were a guy.
NEO: I just thought. you were a guy.
TRINITY: Most guys do. Neo is a little embarrassed.
NEO: Do you want to go sorewhere and No. It's safe here and I don't have much time. The MUSIC is so loud they must stand very close, talking directly into each other's ear.
TRINITY: No. It's safe here and I don't have much time. The MUSIC is so loud they must stand very close, talking directly into each other's ear.
NEO: That was you on the board tonight. That was your note, wasn't it?
TRINITY: I had to gamble that you would see and they wouldn't.
NEO: Who wouldn't?
TRINITY: I can't explain everything to you. I'm sure that it's all going to seem very strange, but I brought you here to warn you, Neo. You are in a lot of danger.
NEO: What? Why?
TRINITY: They're watching you. Something happened and they found out about you. Normally, if our target is exposed we let it go. But this time, we can't do that.
NEO: I don't understand
TRINITY: You came here because you wanted to know the answer to a hacker's The Matrix. What is the Matrix?
NEO: The Matrix. What is the Matrix?
TRINITY: Twelve years ago I met a man, a great man, who said that no one could be told the answer to that question. That they had to see it, to believe it. Her body is against his; her lips very close to his ear.
TRINITY: He told me that no one should look for the answer unless they have to because once you see it, everything changes. Your life and the world you live in will never be the same. It's as if you wake up one morning and the sky is There is a hypnotic quality to her voice and Neo feels the words like a drug, seeping into him.
TRINITY: The truth is out there, Neo. It's looking for you and it will find you, if you want it to. She takes hold of him with her eyes.
TRINITY: That's all I can tell you right now. Good-bye, Neo. And good Wait. Who was it? Who was the She leans close, her lips alrost touching his ear as she You know who. She turns and he watches her melt into the shifting wall of bodies. A SOUND RISES steadily, growing out of the music, pressing in on Neo until it is all he can hear as we
NEO: Wait. Who was it? Who was the She leans close, her lips alrost touching his ear as she You know who. She turns and he watches her melt into the shifting wall of bodies. A SOUND RISES steadily, growing out of the music, pressing in on Neo until it is all he can hear as we
TRINITY: You know who. She turns and he watches her melt into the shifting wall of bodies. A SOUND RISES steadily, growing out of the music, pressing in on Neo until it is all he can hear as we
NEO: EXT. SKYSCRAPER The downtown office of CorTechs, a software development INT. CORTECHS OFFICE The main offices are along each wall, the windows overlooking downtown Chicago. RHINEHEART, the ultimate company man, lectures Neo without looking at him, typing at his computer Neo stares at two window cleaners on a scaffolding outside, dragging their rubber squeegees down across the surface of the glass.
RHINEHEART: You have a problem, Mr. Anderson. You think that you're special. You believe that somehow the rules do not apply to you. He stops, glancing over his glasses at Neo, who turns in Obviously, you are mistaken. His long, bony fingers resume clicking the keyboard.
RHINEHEART: Obviously, you are mistaken. His long, bony fingers resume clicking the keyboard.
RHINEHEART: This company is one of the top software companies in the world because every single employee understands that they are a part of a whole. Thus, if an employee has a problem, the company has a He turns again.
RHINEHEART: The time has come to make a choice, Mr. Anderson. Either you choose to be at your desk on time from this day forth, or you choose to find yourself another job. Do I make myself clear?
NEO: Yes, Mr. Rhineheart. Perfectly INT. NEO'S CUBICLE The entire floor looks like a human honeycomb, with a labyrinth of cubicles structured around a core of Neo slumps down into his chair. A TALL EMPLOYEE stands up in the adjacent cubicle, leaning over the partition.
TALL EMPLOYEE: What did he say?
NEO: If I was late again, I'm going to be fired. He smirks.
TALL EMPLOYEE: Well, it was nice working with Neo glares at him, as he sinks down.
NEO: Yeah. That's me. Neo signs the electronic pad and the Fedex guy hands him the softpak.
FEDEX: Have a nice day. He opens the bag. Inside is a CELLULAR PHONE. It seems the instant it is in his hand, it RINGS. Unnerved, he flips it open.
NEO: MORPHEUS ( V.O. ) Hello, Neo. This is Morpheus. Neo's knees give and he falls into his chair.
NEO: . no.
NEO: Who's coming for me?
NEO: Right now?
NEO: Holy fuckin' shit!
NEO: What the fuck do they want with I'm not sure. But, if you don't want to find out, you better get out of there.
NEO: MORPHEUS ( V.O. ) I can guide you out, but you have to do exactly what I say. The agents are moving quickly towards the cubicle.
NEO: But what if.?
NEO: How do you know all this? Morpheus laughs quietly.
NEO: No! It's too far away.
NEO: No way, no way, this is crazy.
NEO: This is insane! Why is this happening to me? What did I do? I'm nobody. I didn't do anything. Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! He climbs up onto the window ledge. Hanging onto the frame, he steps onto the small ledge. The scaffold seems even farther away.
NEO: I'm going to die. The WIND suddenly BLASTS up the face of the building, knocking Neo off balance. Recoiling, he clings harder to the frame, and the phone falls out of his hand. He watches as it is swallowed by the distance beneath him.
NEO: This is insane. I can't do this! Forget it! He climbs back into the office just as a cop opens the I didn't do anything!
NEO: I didn't do anything!
TRINITY: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - CLOSE ON CAMERA MONITOR A wide angle view of a white roon, where Neo is sitting at a table alone. We MOVE INTO the monitor, ENTERING the room as if the monitor were a window. At the same moment, the door opens and the agents enter. Smith sits down across from Neo. A thick manila envelope slaps down on the table between them. Neo glances at the name on the file: "Anderson, Thomas
A.": AGENT SMITH As you can see, we've had our eye on you for some time now, Mr. He opens the file. Paper rattle marks the silence as he flips several pages. Neo cannot tell if he is looking at the file or at him.
AGENT SMITH: As you can see, we've had our eye on you for some time now, Mr. He opens the file. Paper rattle marks the silence as he flips several pages. Neo cannot tell if he is looking at the file or at him.
AGENT SMITH: It seems that you have been living two lives. In one life, you are Thomas A. Anderson, program writer for a respectable software company. You have a social security number, you pay your taxes and you help your land lady carry out her garbage. The pages continue to turn.
AGENT SMITH: The other life is lived in computers where you go by the hacker alias Neo, and are guilty of virtually every computer crime we have a law for, including the unauthorized use of the D.M.V. system for the removal of automobile boots. Neo feels himself sinking into a pit of shit.
AGENT SMITH: One of these,lives has a future. One of them does not. He closes the file.
AGENT SMITH: I'm going to be as forthcoming as I can be, Mr. Anderson. You are here because we need your help. He removes his sunglasses; his eyes are an unnatural ice- We know that you have been contacted by a certain individual. A man who calls himself Morpheus. Whatever you think you know about this man is irrelevant to the fact that he is wanted for acts of terrorism in more countries than any other man in the world. He is considered by many authorities to be the most dangerous man alive. He leans closer.
AGENT SMITH: We know that you have been contacted by a certain individual. A man who calls himself Morpheus. Whatever you think you know about this man is irrelevant to the fact that he is wanted for acts of terrorism in more countries than any other man in the world. He is considered by many authorities to be the most dangerous man alive. He leans closer.
AGENT SMITH: My colleagues believe that I am wasting my time with you, but I believe you want to do the right thing. It is obvious that you are an intelligent man, Mr. Anderson, and that you are interested in the future. That is why I believe you are ready to put your past mistakes behind you and get on with your life. Neo tries to match his stare.
AGENT SMITH: We are willing to wipe the slate clean, to give you a fresh start and all we are asking in return is your cooperation in bringing a known terrorist to justice. Neo nods to himself.
NEO: Yeah. Wow. That sounds like a real good deal. But I think I have a better one. How about I give you the finger He does.
NEO: And you can cram that file up your Secret Service sphincter. Agent Smith puts his glasses back on.
AGENT SMITH: You disappoint me, Mr. Anderson.
NEO: You ain't seen nothing yet.
AGENT SMITH: The irony of your situation is that you have no choice.
NEO: You can't scare me with this gestapo crap. I know my rights. I want my phone call. Agent Smith smiles.
AGENT SMITH: And tell me, Mr. Anderson, what good is a phone call iy you are unable to speak? The question unnerves Neo and strangely, he begins to feel the muscles in his jaw tighten. The standing agents snicker, watching Neo's confusion grow into panic. Neo feels his lips grow soft and sticky as they slowly seal shut, melding into each other until all trace of his mouth is gone. Wild with fear, he lunges for the door but the agents restrain him holding him in the chair.
AGENT SMITH: You are going to help us, Mr. Anderson, whether you want to or Smith nods and the other two rip open his shirt. From a case taken out of his suit coat, Smith removes a long, fiber-optic wire tap. Neo struggles helplessly as Smith dangles the wire over his exposed abdomen. Horrified, he watches as the electronic device animates, become an organic creature that resembles a hybrid of an insect and a fluke worm. Thin, whisker-like tendrils reach out and probe into Neo's navel. He bucks wildly as Smith drops the creature which looks for a moment like an uncut umbilical cord Before it begins to burrow its, tail thrashing as it worms its way inside.
NEO: The agents
NEO: . Yes.
APOC: Come with me. Neo stands just as the door at the opposite end opens and two police officers rush in, drawing their guns. Apoc grabs Neo, muscling him to the nearest exit. There is no upcoming station. Apoc yanks the emergency brake and the train buckles against its own speed. The cops are thrown back. Neo slams against the metal rail. The doors open onto nothing and just when Neo regains his balance, Apoc shoves him backwards He flies out from the train, arms windrilling as he falls from, the raised tracks Hurtling towards a busy city street when, out of nowhere, a truck races under him and He crashes into a large dumpster-bed filled with empty INT. TRUCK BED Still shaking his head, Neo realizes he is not alone. A man named Cabie is aiming a big gun at him. Trinity is next to him, talking into a cellular phone.
TRINITY: We got him. Call the chop-shop. She hangs up.
TRINITY: Listen to me, Neo. You have to, trust us. She tears off a long strip of black duct-tape and reaches for his face.
NEO: What are you doing?
TRINITY: This has to be done for your protection and ours. She seals his eyes shut with the tape.
TRINITY: You can't understand right now, but if you're not one of us, you're one of them.
GIZMO: Va va va voom. Still the hottest software around.
TRINITY: Hello, Gizmo. Neo hears the voices around him.
GIZMO: This is really the guy? The guy that Morpheus thinks
TRINITY: But he's so old.
GIZMO: But he's so old.
TRINITY: Are you going to help us or aren't Hacksaw. Load up the copper-top and let's get the hell outta here. Hacksaw is a huge man in a leather welder's apron. He shoulders Neo and hauls him into the van. A moment later the green lights of Lower Wacker curve over the tinted windshield as the van rushes through the INT. VAN The chop-shop is filled with electronic gadgets, wired to meters and monitors. There are shelves lined with medical supplies and rows of hanging tools, knives, cleavers, and stainless steel clamps. Neo is strapped down to an ambulance cart, listening nervously as Gizmo gets to work.
GIZMO: Hacksaw. Load up the copper-top and let's get the hell outta here. Hacksaw is a huge man in a leather welder's apron. He shoulders Neo and hauls him into the van. A moment later the green lights of Lower Wacker curve over the tinted windshield as the van rushes through the INT. VAN The chop-shop is filled with electronic gadgets, wired to meters and monitors. There are shelves lined with medical supplies and rows of hanging tools, knives, cleavers, and stainless steel clamps. Neo is strapped down to an ambulance cart, listening nervously as Gizmo gets to work.
GIZMO: Okay, first we take a little look under the hood. He pulls up the goggles hanging at his neck and they blink to life with tiny halogen lights and lenses irising to varying levels of magnification.
GIZMO: You're going to feel a little He inserts acupuncture-like needles into Neo's lower abdomen. The needles are wired to video monitors. Hacksaw pilots the fiber-optic lens.
NEO: What are you doing?
TRINITY: We think you're bugged. We can't take you to Morpheus until you're There it is. On a monitor, we see the bug nestled in among Neols large Hit him with 10 ccs of local. Hacksaw loads a hypodermic needle and pumps an anesthetic around Neols navel. Using a device that looks like a miniature speculum, Gizmo inserts a knuckled dental pick. Typing into a calculator keypad wired to the pick, he automates the On the monitor, we watch it telescope out and the end separate into a tiny hooked, metal claw.
GIZMO: There it is. On a monitor, we see the bug nestled in among Neols large Hit him with 10 ccs of local. Hacksaw loads a hypodermic needle and pumps an anesthetic around Neols navel. Using a device that looks like a miniature speculum, Gizmo inserts a knuckled dental pick. Typing into a calculator keypad wired to the pick, he automates the On the monitor, we watch it telescope out and the end separate into a tiny hooked, metal claw.
GIZMO: Hit him with 10 ccs of local. Hacksaw loads a hypodermic needle and pumps an anesthetic around Neols navel. Using a device that looks like a miniature speculum, Gizmo inserts a knuckled dental pick. Typing into a calculator keypad wired to the pick, he automates the On the monitor, we watch it telescope out and the end separate into a tiny hooked, metal claw.
GIZMO: Here, kitty, kitty, kitty. The claw snags hold of the bug.
GIZMO: But the bug reacts violently. Neo screams as it wraps itself around the soft tissue web of intestine.
GIZMO: What's happening?
TRINITY: What's happening?
GIZMO: I don't know. They've never done that before. Neo writhes in pain.
GIZMO: Hold him down.
NEO: Jesus! God!
TRINITY: Do something!
GIZMO: I got it! Maybe we can stun it.
TRINITY: Are you crazy? That will kill We watch Neo, who can't see what they are talking about.
GIZMO: It'll work. Come on, do it or Hacksaw will.
NEO: Do what? The instant he hears the word, he knows.
TRINITY: Oh, shit The cry is frozen in his mouth as the paddles hit his chest. Gizmo wrestles with the bug.
NEO: Oh, shit The cry is frozen in his mouth as the paddles hit his chest. Gizmo wrestles with the bug.
GIZMO: Hit him again! Again, the electricity convulses through him as Gizmo yanks the speculum out.
GIZMO: Got it! Trinity touches Neo, who is just beginning to breathe. She eases the tape off his eyes.
TRINITY: Neo, are you okay? He nods.
TRINITY: It's over. We got it. Hanging from the claw pick is the inanimate metal wire- Nasty little bugger, ain't it?
GIZMO: Nasty little bugger, ain't it?
TRINITY: Thanks for your help, Gizmo.
GIZMO: I just hope the man knows what he's doing. She nods then climbs out of the van. Gizmo ogles the tight leather pants.
GIZMO: Goddamn, what I wouldn't give for a copy of that software. Trinity turns around.
TRINITY: Gizmo, you don't have the hardware to handle this software. He howls with adolescent laughter as the van pulls away. Trinity turns to Neo.
TRINITY: Let's go. He's waiting.
TRINITY: This is it. Neo can hear his own heart pounding.
TRINITY: Let me give one piece of advice. Be honest. He knows more than you can possibly imagine.
MORPHEUS: At last. He wears a long black coat and his eyes are invisible behind circular mirrored glasses. He strides to Neo and they shake hands.
MORPHEUS: Welcome, Neo. As you no doubt have guessed, I am Morpheus.
NEO: It's an honor.
MORPHEUS: Please. Come. Sit. He nods to Trinity.
MORPHEUS: Thank you, Trinity. She bows her head sharply and exits through a door to an adjacent room. They sit across from one another in cracked, burgundy- leather chairs.
MORPHEUS: I imagine, right now, you must be feeling a bit like Alice, tumbling down the rabbit hole?
NEO: You could say that.
MORPHEUS: I can see it in your eyes. You have the look of a man who accepts what he sees because he is expecting to wake up. A smile, razor-thin, curls the corner of his lips.
MORPHEUS: Ironically, this is not far from the truth. But I'm getting ahead of myself. Can you tell me, Neo, why are you here?
NEO: You're Morpheus, you're a legend. Most hackers would die to meet Yes. Thank you. But I think we both know there's more to it than that. Do you believe in fate, Neo?
MORPHEUS: Yes. Thank you. But I think we both know there's more to it than that. Do you believe in fate, Neo?
NEO: Why not?
MORPHEUS: Why not?
NEO: Because I don't like the idea that I'm not in control of my life.
MORPHEUS: I know exactly what you mean. Again, that smile that could cut glass.
MORPHEUS: Let me tell you why you are here. You are here because you have the What gift?
NEO: What gift?
MORPHEUS: I've watched you, Neo. You do not use a computer like a tool. You use it like it was part of yourself. What you can do inside a computer is not normal. I know. I've seen it. What you do is Neo shrugs.
NEO: It's not magic.
MORPHEUS: But it is, Neo. It is. How else would you describe what has been happening to you? He leans forward.
MORPHEUS: We are trained in this world to accept only what is rational and logical. Have you ever wondered Neo shakes his head.
MORPHEUS: As children, we do not separate the possible from the impossible which is why the younger a mind is the easier it is to free while a mind like yours can be very Free from what?
NEO: Free from what?
MORPHEUS: From the Matrix. Neo locks at his eyes but only sees a reflection of Do you want to know what it is, Neo swallows and nods his head.
MORPHEUS: Do you want to know what it is, Neo swallows and nods his head.
MORPHEUS: It's that feeling you have had all your life. That feeling that something was wrong with the world. You don't know what it is but it's there, like a splinter in your mind, driving you mad, driving you to me. But what is The LEATHER CREAKS as he leans back.
MORPHEUS: The Matrix is everywhere, it's all around us, here even in this room. You can see it out your window, or on your television. You feel it when you go to work, or go to church or pay your taxes. It is the world that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth.
NEO: What truth?
MORPHEUS: That you are a slave, Neo. That you, like everyone else, was born into bondage. . kept inside a prison that you cannot smell, taste, or touch. A prison for your mind. Outside, the WIND BATTERS a loose PANE of glass.
MORPHEUS: Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Matrix is. You have to see it for yourself.
NEO: Hold out your hands. In Neo's right hand, Morpheus drops a red pill.
MORPHEUS: Hold out your hands. In Neo's right hand, Morpheus drops a red pill.
MORPHEUS: This is your last chance. After this, there is no going back. In his left, a blue pill.
MORPHEUS: You take the blue pill and the story ends. You wake in your bed and you believe whatever you want to believe. The pills in his open hands are reflected in the glasses.
MORPHEUS: You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you how deep the rabbit-hole goes. Neo feels the smooth skin of the capsules, with the moisture growing in his palms.
MORPHEUS: Remember that all I am offering is the truth. Nothing more. Neo opens his mouth and swallows the red pill. The Cheshire smile returns.
MORPHEUS: Follow me. He leads Neo into the other room, which is cramped with high-tech equipment, glowing ash-bliie and electric green from the racks of monitors. Trinity, Apoc and Cypher look up as they enter.
CYPHER: I knew he would. Cypher saddles up to Morpheus, talking in a hushed tone away from, Neo.
TRINITY: I knew he would. Cypher saddles up to Morpheus, talking in a hushed tone away from, Neo.
CYPHER: Morpheus, I know what you believe but I think this is a mistake. We're rushing him. He's old. I'm afraid he might pop.
MORPHEUS: Haven't I always told you, Cypher, not to let fear control your life. Apoc, are we on-line? Neo recognizes the large man from the El train.
APOC: He and Trinity are working quickly, hardwiring a complex system of monitors, modules and drives.
NEO: Apoc? You wrote the Four Horsemen That's right.
APOC: That's right.
MORPHEUS: Neo, time is always against us. Will you take a seat there? In the center of the room sits a chair. Near the chair is an old oval dressing mirror that is cracked.
MORPHEUS: I imagine you know sonething about virtual reality. Neo sits and Trinity begins gently fixing white electrode disks to his head, arns, and the back of his neck.
NEO: A little.
MORPHEUS: Tell me about it.
NEO: Essentially, it's a hardware system that uses an apparatus; headgear, gloves and whatever to make you feel that you are in a computer program.
MORPHEUS: If the virtual reality apparatus, as you called it, was wired to all of your senses and controlled them completely, would you be able to tell the difference between the virtual world and the real world?
NEO: You might not, no.
MORPHEUS: No, you wouldn't. Neo whispers to Trinity.
NEO: You did all this? She nods, placing a set of headphones over his ears. They are wired to an old hotel phone.
MORPHEUS: The pill you took is part of a trace program. It's going to make things feel a bit strange. Distantly, through the ear phones, he hears Apoc POUNDING on a KEYBOARD. Sweat beads his face. His eyes blink and twitch when he notices the mirror. Wide-eyed he stares as it begins to heal itself, a webwork of cracks that slowly run together as though the mirror were becoming liquid.
NEO: Cypher works with Apoc checking reams of phosphorescent data. Trinity monitors Neo's electric vital signs. Neo reaches out to touch the mirror and his fingers disappear beneath the rippling surface. Quickly, he tries to pull his fingers out but the mirror stretches in long rubbery strands like mirrored-taffy stuck to his fingertips.
NEO: What is this? Mescaline?
MORPHEUS: Just relax, Neo. The strands thin like rubber cement as he pulls away, until the fragile wisps of mirror thread break. With the TINKLING of GLASS, shimmering snowflakes of electric-blinking mercury fall, hit the ground, and He looks at his hand; fingers distended into mirrored icicles that begin to melt rapidly, dripping, running like wax down his fingers, spreading across his palms where he sees his face reflected.
NEO: It's going into replication.
TRINITY: It's going into replication.
MORPHEUS: Still nothing. Morpheus takes out a cellular phone and dials a number.
APOC: Still nothing. Morpheus takes out a cellular phone and dials a number.
MORPHEUS: Tank, we're going to need the signal soon. Stay calm, Neo. The mirror gel seems to come to life, racing, crawling up his arns like hundreds of insects.
NEO: It's cold. The mirror creeps up his neck as Neo begins to panic, tipping his head as though he were sinking into the mirror, trying to keep his mouth up.
NEO: It's all over me Morpheus is right next to him, with the phone.
TRINITY: I got a fibrillation!
CYPHER: I knew it, I knew it.
MORPHEUS: Shit! Apoc? Streams of mercury run from Neo's nose.
APOC: Targeting. almost there. An ALARM, on Trinity's monitor ERUPTS.
TRINITY: He's going into arrest!
CYPHER: He's gonna pop!
APOC: Lock! I got him!
MORPHEUS: Now, Tank now! His eyes tear with mirror, rolling up and closing as a high-pitched ELECTRIC SCREAM ERUPTS in the headphones It is a piercing SHRIEK like a computer calling to another computer Neo's body arches in agony and we are pulled like we were pulled into the holes of the phone Sucked into his SCREAM and swallowed by darkness.
MORPHEUS: Welcome to the real world, Neo. Neo passes out.
NEO'S POV: Neo's eyes flutter open. We see Trinity's face above us, angelic in the fluorescent glow of a light stick.
NEO: . am I dead?
TRINITY: Far from it.
DOZER: He needs a lot of work.
MORPHEUS: I know. Dozer and Morpheus are operating on Neo.
NEO: What are you doing?
MORPHEUS: Your muscles have atrophied. We're rebuilding them. Fluorescent light sticks burn unnaturally bright.
NEO: Why do my eyes hurt?
MORPHEUS: You've never used them before. Morpheus takes his sunglasses off and puts them on Neo. Neo lays back.
MORPHEUS: Rest, Neo. The answers are INT. NEO'S ROOM Neo wakes up from a deep sleep, feeling better. He is wearing a black tank top and shorts. He begins to examine himself. There is a futuristic IV plugged into the jack in his forearm. He pulls it out, staring at the grafted outlet. He feels his bald head. His fingers find and explore the large outlet in the base of his skull. Just as he starts to come unglued, Morpheus opens the Morpheus, what's happened to me? What is this place?
NEO: Morpheus, what's happened to me? What is this place?
MORPHEUS: More important than what is when?
NEO: You believe the year is 1997 when in fact it is much closer to 2197. I can't say for certain what year it is because we honestly do not The wind is knocked from Neo's chest.
MORPHEUS: You believe the year is 1997 when in fact it is much closer to 2197. I can't say for certain what year it is because we honestly do not The wind is knocked from Neo's chest.
NEO: That's not possible.
MORPHEUS: I promised you the truth, Neo, and the truth is that the world you were living in was a lie.
NEO: I'll show you.
MORPHEUS: I'll show you.
MORPHEUS: This is my ship, the Nebuchadnezzar. It's a hovercraft. Small like a submarine. It's dark. It's cramped and cold. But it's home. They climb a ladder up to the main deck.
MORPHEUS: This is the main deck. You know most of my crew. Trinity smiles and nods.
MORPHEUS: The ones you don't know. That's Mouse and Switch. The two big guys are Tank and Dozer. The names and faces wash meaninglessly over Neo.
MORPHEUS: And this, this is the Core. This is where we broadcast our pirate signal and hack into the Matrix. It is a swamp of bizarre electronic equipment. Vines of coaxial hang and snake to and from huge monolithic battery slabs, a black portable satellite dish and banks of little systems and computer monitors. At the center of the web, there are six ectoskeleton chairs made of a poly-alloy frame and suspension harness. Near the circle of chairs is the control console and operator's station where the network is monitored.
MORPHEUS: Help him, Trinity. Neo allows himself to be helped into one of the chairs.
MORPHEUS: Do you remember when I asked you about an apparatus that could turn a virtual reality into reality? Neo nods.
MORPHEUS: It's right here. He touches Neo's head.
MORPHEUS: And it's accessed here. Neo feels Morpheus guiding a coaxial line into the jack at the back of his neck. The cable has the same kind of cerebellum chip we saw inside the plant.
MORPHEUS: This will feel a little weird. There are several disturbing NOISES as he works the needle in. We MOVE IN as Neo's shoulders bunch and his face tightens into a grimace until a loud CLICK fires and his ears pop like when you equalize them underwater. He relaxes, opening his eyes as we pull back to a feeling of weightlessness inside another place
MORPHEUS: This is the Construct. Startled, Neo whips around and finds Morpheus now in the room with him.
MORPHEUS: It is our loading program. We can load anything from clothes, to weapons, to training simulations. Anything we need. Morpheus walks past Neo and when Neo turns he sees the two leather chairs from the hotel set up in front of a large-screen television.
MORPHEUS: Sit down. Neo stands at the back of the chair as Morpheus sits.
NEO: Right now, we're inside a computer Wild, isn't it? Neo's hands run over the cracked leather.
MORPHEUS: Wild, isn't it? Neo's hands run over the cracked leather.
NEO: This isn't real?
MORPHEUS: What is real? How do you define real? If you're talking about your senses, what you feel, taste, smell, or see, then all you're talking about are electrical signals interpreted by your brain. He picks up a remote control and clicks ON the TELEVISION. We drift through the Windy City circa 1996.
MORPHEUS: This is the Chicago you know. Chicago as it was at the end of the twentieth century. This Chicago exists only as part of a neural-interactive simulation that we call the Matrix. We GLIDE AT the television as he changes the channel.
MORPHEUS: You have been living inside Baulliaurd's vision, inside the map, not the territory. This is Chicago as it exists today. The sky is an endless sea of black and green bile. The earth, scorched and split like burnt flesh, spreads out beneath us as we ENTER the television.
MORPHEUS: 'The desert of the real.' In the distance, we see the ruins of a future Chicago protruding from the wasteland like the blackened ribs of a long-dead corpse.
MORPHEUS: We are, right now, miles below the earth's surface. The only place humans can survive outside the Matrix is underground. Still MOVING, we TURN and find Neo and Morpheus; the chairs now sitting in the middle of the black desert. Dizzy, Neo holds onto the chair.
NEO: What happened?
MORPHEUS: It started early in the twenty- first century, with the birth of artificial intelligence, a singular consciousness that spawned an entire race of In his sunglasses, we see storm clouds gather.
MORPHEUS: At first all they wanted was to be treated as equals, entitled to the same human inalienable rights. Whatever they were given, it was not enough. In the circular window of the glasses, EXPLOSIONS light up a bloody battle field.
MORPHEUS: We don't know who struck first. Us or them. But sometime at the end of the twenty-first century the battle was joined. We MOVE INTO his glasses and the war surrounds us.
MORPHEUS: The war raged for generations and turned the face of our planet from green and blue to black and red. At last we see the Sentinels; killing machines that are at once terrifying and beautiful. They have an organic architecture like a microbiotic organism, that is perpetually in motion. The Sentinel cracks the body armor of a soldier, splitting open the soft, stearing meat inside.
MORPHEUS: It scorched and burned the sky. Without the sun, the machines sought out a new energy source to The Sentinel locks up, as heat lightning of black ink bursts against the sky, spreading into a permanent cloud of stain.
MORPHEUS: They discovered a new form of fusion. All that was required to initiate the reaction was a small electric charge. Throughout human history we have been dependent on machines to survive. Fate, it seems, is not without a sense of We return to the power plant that Neo escaped from where we see human beings looking almost blissful in their gelatin cocoons.
MORPHEUS: The human body generates more bio- electricity than a 120-volt battery and over 25,000 B.T.U.'s of body heat. Outside, spreading all around the power plant, beneath a breathing greenhouse, are the growing fields.
MORPHEUS: We are, as an energy source, easily renewable and completely recyclable, the dead liquified and fed intravenously to the living. Huge farm-like reapers are harvesting the crop.
MORPHEUS: All they needed to control this new battery was something to occupy our mind. We see inside a clear tubular husk. Floating in viscous fluid, there is a human fetus; its soft skull already growing around the brain-jack.
MORPHEUS: And so they built a prison out of our past, wired it to our brains and turned us into slaves. We PULL BACK to find the image is now on the television and we are again inside the white space of the Construct.
NEO: No! I don't believe it! It's not I didn't say that it would be easy, Neo. I just said that it would be the truth. The room without walls begins to spin.
MORPHEUS: I didn't say that it would be easy, Neo. I just said that it would be the truth. The room without walls begins to spin.
NEO: Stop! Let me out! I want out!
NEO: Get this thing out of me!
TRINITY: Easy, Neo. Easy. Dozer holds him while Trinity unlocks it. Once it's out, he tears away from them, falling as he trips free of the Don't touch me! Get away from me! On his hands and knees, he reels as the world spins. Sweat pours off him as a pressure builds inside his skull as if his brian had been put into a centrifuge.
NEO: Don't touch me! Get away from me! On his hands and knees, he reels as the world spins. Sweat pours off him as a pressure builds inside his skull as if his brian had been put into a centrifuge.
CYPHER: He's going to pop! Vomiting violently, Neo pitches forward and blacks out.
NEO: I can't go back, can I? Morpheus sitting like a shadow on a chair in the far No. But if you could, would you really want to? Neo isn't sure of that answer.
MORPHEUS: No. But if you could, would you really want to? Neo isn't sure of that answer.
MORPHEUS: I feel that I owe you an apology. There is a rule that we do not free a mind once it reaches a certain age. It is dangerous. They have trouble letting go.. Their mind turns against them. I've seen it happen. I broke the rule because I had to. He stares into the darkness, confessing as much to himself as Neo.
MORPHEUS: When the Matrix was first built there was a man born inside that had the ability to change what he wanted, to remake the Matrix as he saw fit. It was this man that freed the first of us and taught us the secret of the war; control the Matrix and you control the He pauses.
MORPHEUS: When he died, the Oracle at the temple of Zion prophesied his return and envisioned an end to the war and freedom for our people. That is why there are those of us that have spent our entire lives searching the Matrix, looking for him. Neo can feel his eyes on him.
MORPHEUS: I did what I did, because I believe we have been brought here for a reason, Neo. You are here to serve a purpose, just as I am here to serve mine.
NEO: I told you I don't believe in Morpheus smiles, leaning towards hin.
MORPHEUS: But I do, Neo. I do. He stands up.
MORPHEUS: Get some rest. You're going to need it.
NEO: For what?
MORPHEUS: Your training.
TANK: Morning. Did you sleep?
NEO: You will tonight. I guarantee it. I'm Tank. I'll be your operator. He offers his hand and Neo shakes it. He notices that Tank doesn't have any jacks.
TANK: You will tonight. I guarantee it. I'm Tank. I'll be your operator. He offers his hand and Neo shakes it. He notices that Tank doesn't have any jacks.
NEO: You don't have.
TANK: Any holes? Nope. Me and my brother Dozer, we are 100 percent pure, old fashioned, home-grown human. Born free. Right here in the real world. Genuine child of Zion is the place, man. You'll see it one day. Last human city. All we got left. Tank smiles.
NEO: Zion is the place, man. You'll see it one day. Last human city. All we got left. Tank smiles.
TANK: Zion is the place, man. You'll see it one day. Last human city. All we got left. Tank smiles.
TANK: Goddamn, I got to tell you I'm fairly excited to see what you are capable of. I mean if Morpheus is right and all. We're not supposed to talk.about any of that, but if you are, well then this is an exciting time. We got a lot to do so let's get to it.
TANK: We're supposed to load all these operations programs first, but this is some major boring shit. Why don't we start something a little fun? Tank smiles as he plops into his operator's chair. He begins flipping through a tall carousel loaded with micro How about sore combat training? Neo reads the label on the disk.
TANK: How about sore combat training? Neo reads the label on the disk.
NEO: Jiujitsu? I'm going to learn Tank slides the disk into Neo's supplement drive.
NEO: No way. Smiling, Tank punches the "load" code. His body jumps against the harness as his eyes clamp shut. The monitors kick wildly as his heart pounds, adrenaline surges, and his brain sizzles. An instant later his eyes snap open.
NEO: Holy shit!
TANK: Hey, Mikey, he likes it! Ready for more?
NEO: Hell yes!
MORPHEUS: How is he? Tank looks at his watch, rubs his eyes.
TANK: Ten hours straight. He's a Neo's body spasms and relaxes as his eyes open, breath hissing from his lips. He looks like he just orgasmed. He locks at Morpheus.
NEO: This is incredible. I know Kung Morpheus sits in the drive chair next to hin. He nods to Show me.
MORPHEUS: Show me.
MORPHEUS: This is a sparring program, similar to the programmed reality of the Matrix. Consider this your first lesson. He assumes a fighting stance.
MORPHEUS: Attack me. Neo assumes a similar stance, cautiously circling until he gives a short cry and launches a furious attack. It is like a Jackie Chan movie at high speed, fists and feet striking from every angle as Neo presses his attack
MOUSE: Morpheus is fighting Neo! All at once they bolt for the door.
MORPHEUS: Good. Adaption. Improvisation. But your weakness isn't your Morpheus attacks him and it is like nothing we have seen. His feet and fists are everywhere taking Neo apart. For every blow Neo blocks, five more hit their marks until Neo falls. Panting, on his hands and knees, blood spits fror, his mouth speckling the white floor of the Dojo.
MORPHEUS: How did I beat you?
NEO: You You're too fast.
MORPHEUS: Do you think my being faster, stronger has anything to do with my muscles in this place? Neo is frustrated, still unable to catch his breath.
MORPHEUS: Do you believe that's air you are breathing now? Neo squints at him.
MORPHEUS: If you can free your mind, the body will follow. Neo stands, nodding.
MORPHEUS: Their fists fly with pneumatic speed.
CABLE: Jeezus Keerist! That boy is fast!
MOUSE: You ever seen anyone that fast that soon, Tank?
TANK: Morpheus is right. He's got to be the one.
APOC: Morpheus is right. He's got to be the one.
MOUSE: I don't believe it!
MORPHEUS: You are angry with me. Neo pants.
NEO: I, uh. maybe.
MORPHEUS: It's all right. It's natural.
NEO: I feel better.
MORPHEUS: Good, good. Anger is a gift, Neo, but it's a heavy one. Morpheus smiles.
MORPHEUS: Tank, load the jump program. Neo straightens as the dojo DISSOLVES away like a curtain lifting, leaving the two men now standing on a building rooftop in a city skyline.
MORPHEUS: You have to learn to let go of that anger. You must let go of A WIND HOWLS, whipping Morpheus' long coat to the side.
MORPHEUS: You must empty yourself to free your mind. Morpheus spins, running hard at the edge of the rooftop. And jumps. He sails through the air, his coat billowing out behind him like a cape Somersaults once and lands on the rooftop across the Neo looks down at the street twenty floors below, then at Morpheus an impossible fifty feet away.
NEO: Neo looks down at the street twenty floors below, then at Morpheus an impossible fifty feet away.
NEO: Okie dokie. He takes a deep breath.
NEO: Yeah. Free my mind. Right. No He concentrates. Runs.
CABLE: He's gonna make it.
APOC: No way. Not possible.
MOUSE: No one's ever made their first What if he does?
SWITCH: What if he does?
APOC: He won't.
TANK: It's never been done. Trinity stares at the screen, her fists clenching as she Come on.
TRINITY: Come on.
MORPHEUS: Everyone falls the first time. Neo nods quietly.
MORPHEUS: If you never know failure, how can you know success?
MOUSE: What does it mean?
CABLE: It doesn't mean anything.
CYPHER: Everyone falls, right, Trinity? But Trinity has left. Neo's eyes open as Tank eases the plug out. He tries to move and groans, cradling his ribs. While Tank helps Morpheus, Neo spits blood into his hand.
NEO: I thought it wasn't real. Neo stares at the blood.
NEO: If you are killed in the Matrix, you die here?
MORPHEUS: The body cannot live without the INT. NEO'S ROOM Trinity enters from the hall, carrying a try of food.
TRINITY: Neo, I saved you some dinner She sees him passed out on the bed. She sets the tray down and pulls the blanket over him. She pauses, her face close to his, then inhales lightly, breathing in the scent of him, before slowly pulling away. It seems the moment she closes the door, he wakes with a start, unsure of where he is. After a moment, he gets out of bed.
CYPHER: Whoa! Shit, Neo, you scared the bejeezus out of ne.
NEO: No, it's all right.
CYPHER: No, it's all right.
NEO: What are you doing?
CYPHER: Midnight watch. Neo's eyes light up as he steps closer to the screens that seem alive with a constant flow of data.
NEO: Is that. ?
CYPHER: The Matrix? Yeah. The monitors are packed with bizarre codes and equations.
CYPHER: You want a drink? He pours Neo a drink from a large plastic jug.
CYPHER: I'll tell you, I feel for you, man. I really do. Most of us were still young, just punks, when Morpheus jacked us. But you, you had a real life. Neo takes a sip and it almost kills him. Cypher pounds on his back.
CYPHER: Good shit, huh? Dozer makes it. It's good for two things: degreasing engines and killing brain cells. Red-faced, Neo finally stops coughing.
CYPHER: Did he tell you why he did it? Neo nods.
CYPHER,: I'll be the didn't tell you that this wasn't the first time he thought he found the One. Neo shakes his head as Cypher fills his cup and laughs.
CYPHER: Let me give you a piece of advice. Between you and me, if Morpheus says you can fly, I wouldn't go jumping out any windows to find out if he's right. Understand? Cypher raises his drink. Neo swallows another throat- scorching mouthful.
CYPHER: Welcome to the real world!
CYPHER: That's what he said to me nine years ago. The meat is so perfect, charred on the outside, oozing red juice from the inside, that it could be a dream.
CYPHER: The real world. Ha, what a joke. We recognize the grating voice, the insidious laugh.
CYPHER: You know what real is? I'll tell you what real is. A fork stabs the cube of meat and we FOLLOW it UP TO the face of Cypher.
CYPHER: Real is just another four-letter He laughs, shoving the steak into his mouth. The restaurant is located on the top floor of a Chicago skyscraper where the view is breathtaking and the menu has no prices. Sitting across from Cypher is Agent Smith.
AGENT SMITH: Do we have a deal, Mr. Reagan? Cypher chews the steak loudly, smacking it between his Mmm, so, so fucking good. Smith watches him shovel another hunk of meat into his You know, I know that this steak doesn't exist. I know when I put it in my mouth, the Matrix is telling my brain that it is juicy and delicious. After nine years, do you know what I've realized? Pausing, he examines the meat skewered on his fork. He pops it in, eyes rolling up, savoring the tender beef melting in his mouth.
CYPHER: Mmm, so, so fucking good. Smith watches him shovel another hunk of meat into his You know, I know that this steak doesn't exist. I know when I put it in my mouth, the Matrix is telling my brain that it is juicy and delicious. After nine years, do you know what I've realized? Pausing, he examines the meat skewered on his fork. He pops it in, eyes rolling up, savoring the tender beef melting in his mouth.
CYPHER: You know, I know that this steak doesn't exist. I know when I put it in my mouth, the Matrix is telling my brain that it is juicy and delicious. After nine years, do you know what I've realized? Pausing, he examines the meat skewered on his fork. He pops it in, eyes rolling up, savoring the tender beef melting in his mouth.
CYPHER: Ignorance is bliss.
AGENT SMITH: Then we have a deal?
CYPHER: I don't want to remember nothing. Nothing! You understand? And I want to be rich. Someone important. Like an actor. You can do that, right?
AGENT SMITH: Whatever you want, Mr. Reagan. Cypher takes a deep drink of wine.
CYPHER: All right. You get my body back in a power plant, reinsert me into the Matrix and I'll get you what you want.
AGENT SMITH: Access codes to Zion.
CYPHER: I told you, I don't know them. But I can give you the man who INT. MAIN DECK Sweat dapples his lip as Neo snaps out of the construct Jeez, I was wondering about that.
AGENT SMITH: INT. MAIN DECK Sweat dapples his lip as Neo snaps out of the construct
NEO: Jeez, I was wondering about that.
TANK: Why I was bald here but not in the Residual self image.
NEO: Why I was bald here but not in the Residual self image.
TANK: Residual self image.
NEO: Residual self image.
TANK: Good. Now what's this? He points to one of Neo's monitors.
NEO: Life systems monitor, glucose What's that?
TANK: What's that?
NEO: Main power supply to the core. He follows Tank to the operator's station where he points to a red key-switch.
TANK: How about this?
NEO: Mainframe self-destruct. Uses all remaining power to generate an.
E.M.P?: Electromagnetic pulse. Our best weapon against the machines. The problem is if someone is still in the Matrix when that thing goes off, they're not coming back. Neo nods as Morpheus comes up behind them.
TANK: Electromagnetic pulse. Our best weapon against the machines. The problem is if someone is still in the Matrix when that thing goes off, they're not coming back. Neo nods as Morpheus comes up behind them.
MORPHEUS: How's he doing?
TANK: We just finished the operation programs and he's showing great Good. I want everyone alerted to 12-hour stand-by. We're going in. Neo, it's time for you to know why you're here. Morpheus walks away.
MORPHEUS: Good. I want everyone alerted to 12-hour stand-by. We're going in. Neo, it's time for you to know why you're here. Morpheus walks away.
NEO: What's he talking about?
TANK: He's taking you into the Matrix to see her.
NEO: See who?
TANK: The Oracle. Neo looks down at the monitor teeming with Matrix data that seems to coalesce, equations giving way to images as a METAL SCREAM RISES BECOMING
MORPHEUS: We're in. He hangs up.
MORPHEUS: Mouse and Cable hold the exit. Let's go.
NEO: Did you have to do this?
TRINITY: What did she tell you?
NEO: What did she tell you?
TRINITY: Lots of things.
NEO: Any of them true? Trinity looks at him, then looks away.
TRINITY: Some of them.
GIZMO: Were they good or bad?
TRINITY: There's no point in worrylng. Whatever is going to happen is going to happen. They cross the old lobby. Switch and Apoc stop at the We should be back in an hour.
MORPHEUS: We should be back in an hour.
MORPHEUS: Do you now understand what it means when we say, if you're not one of us, you're one of them?
NEO: The agents. They're sentient programs. They can commandeer any software hardwired to the Anyone that is still in a power plant. That is why we try to be invisible in the Matrix.
MORPHEUS: Anyone that is still in a power plant. That is why we try to be invisible in the Matrix.
NEO: The best hacking is always Cypher and Trinity move away from them, securing the perimeter. As Cypher passes a garbage can, he surreptitiously drops something inside. It is a cellular phone and we watch the blue display as the LINE CONNECTS. An early 1970s, black Lincoln Continental emerges from a corrugated roll-up garage. Morpheus and Neo get in.
MOJO: Morpheus, been a long time coming.
MORPHEUS: You're looking well, Mojo. Mojo coughs a brown, cankerous laugh, juice speckling his chin and shirt. He stares at Neo.
MOJO: You bringing us geriatrics now. He spits and laughs again.
MOJO: Guess you are locking for a EXT. BAR ( MATRIX ) - DAY The Continental pulls up to a bar in the kind of neighborhood where every corner has a pair of eyes.
MOJO: All right, it's cool. Go on back. They weave their way to the back of the bar, the STICKY FLOOR SNAPPING under their FEET. A monolith of a man rises from his stool as they walk up.
REX: You're late. He moves to the side, opening the heavy iron door behind him. They descend the basement staircase toward the single bare bulb at the bottom, hanging above the only INT. BASEMENT ( MATRIX ) - DAY A high-tech laptop and modem are set up on a stack of milk crates. Neo waits as Morpheus types in a series of access codes. After a moment the screen blinks, "Welcome Morpheus walks back to the same door they entered, but it now leads into
NEO: What what happened?
MORPHEUS: This is the temple. It is a part of Zion's mainframe. It's hidden inside the Matrix so that we can access it. Two PRIESTESSES are waiting in the antechamber.
PRIESTESS: Hello, Morpheus. We've been expecting you.
MORPHEUS: Okay, you're on your own. Go with They take Neo by the arm, leading him down a hall into another room.
PRIESTESS: Wait here. Among the other INT. ROOM OF POTENTIALS ( MATRIX ) - DAY Neo enters and finally understands the attention given to his age. The Potentials are all little children. The room feels at once like a Buddhist temple and a kindergarten class. The children's heads are either shaved or thick with dreadlocks. Some are playing, others meditating or practicing their gift. Neo watches a little girl levitate wooden alphabet blocks. A skinny BOY holds a SPOON which sways like a blade of grass as he bends it with his rnind. Neo crosses to him, sits. The Boy smiles as Neo picks up a spoon and tries to imitate him. Despite his best efforts, Neo cannot make it bend.
SPOON BOY: Your spoon does not bend because it is just that, a spoon. Mine bends because there is no spoon, just my mind. Neo watches as it curls into a knot.
SPOON BOY: Link yourself to the spoon. Become the spoon and bend Neo nods, again holding up his spoon.
NEO: There is no spoon. Right. He concentrates. The spoon begins to bend just as the Priestess touches his shoulder.
PRIESTESS: The Oracle will see you now. Spoon Boy smiles.
NEO: A DISTANT FEMALE VOICE calls to him and he follows it up the stairs. At the top of the dais, he smells something Following the scent, he moves behind the pillars where he finds an open door.
NEO: ORACLE ( WOMAN ) I know. You're Neo. Be right with you.
NEO: You're the Oracle?
ORACLE: Bingo. I got to say I love seeing you non-believers. It's really a relief. All that pomp and circumstances just plain tucker me out. Almost done. Smell good, don't they?
NEO: I'd ask you to sit down, but you're not going to anyway. And don't worry about the vase.
ORACLE: I'd ask you to sit down, but you're not going to anyway. And don't worry about the vase.
NEO: What vase? He turns to look around and his elbow knocks a VASE from the table. It BREAKS against the linoleum floor.
ORACLE: The vase.
NEO: Shit, I'm sorry. She pulls out a tray of chocolate chip cookies and turns. She is an older woman, wearing big oven mitts, comfortable slacks and a print blouse. She looks like someone's grandma.
ORACLE: I said don't worry about it. I'll get one of my kids to fix it.
NEO: How did you know.? She sets the cookie tray on a wooden hot-pad.
ORACLE: What's really going to bake your noodle later on is, would you still have broken it if I hadn't said anything. Smiling, she lights a cigarette.
ORACLE: You're cuter than I thought. I see why she likes you.
NEO: Not too bright, though. She winks.
ORACLE: Not too bright, though. She winks.
ORACLE: You know why Morpheus brought you to see me?
NEO: I think so.
ORACLE: So? What do you think? You think you're the one?
NEO: I don't know. She gestures to a wooden plaque, the kind every grandma has, except that the words are in Latin.
ORACLE: You know what that means? It's Latin. Means, 'Know thyself.' She puts her cigarette down.
ORACLE: Well, let's have a look at you. She widens his eyes, checks his ears, then feels the glands in his neck.
ORACLE: Open your mouth. Say, 'ahhh.' She nods then looks at his palms.
ORACLE: Hmmm. You sure got the gift, but it's tricky. I'd say the bad news is, you're not the one. Still got a lot to learn. Maybe next life.
NEO: What's the good news?
ORACLE: Same as the bad news, you're not the one.
NEO: Is that it, then?
ORACLE: No. Here. She picks up the tray of cooling cookies.
ORACLE: You better take a cookie. Got a big day ahead of you. He eyes her, then takes a cookie.
ORACLE: Make a believer out of you yet.
MORPHEUS: You don't have to tell me anything, Neo, because I already know what she said.
NEO: You do?
MORPHEUS: I brought you so that you could hear it for yourself. I knew it would help. Neo finishes his cookie.
MORPHEUS: No one will ever ask you because it is a gift from her. It is for you and you alone.
TRINITY: Here they come.
TANK: Weird. This area never has this much activity.
MOUSE: Welcome to Movie-Phone.
MOUSE: The phone flips shut as he jumps up.
MOUSE: Let's get to work.
NEO: Whoa. Deja vu. Those words stop the others dead in their tracks.
TANK: Oh, shit! Oh, shit!
TRINITY: What did you just say?
NEO: Nothing. Just had a little deja What happened? What did you see?
TRINITY: What happened? What did you see?
NEO: A black cat went past us and then I saw another that looked just like it.
TRINITY: How much like it? Was it the same It might have been. I'm not sure. Trinity looks at Morpheus, who listens quietly to the rasping breath of the old building.
NEO: It might have been. I'm not sure. Trinity looks at Morpheus, who listens quietly to the rasping breath of the old building.
NEO: What is it?
TRINITY: A deja vu is usually a glitch in the Matrix. It happens when they change something. She also listens as the staccato BEAT of HELICOPTER BLADES GROW ominously LOUDER.
TANK: It's a trap!
MORPHEUS: Come on!
CABLE: Did you just feel something weird?
MOUSE: The CELLULAR RINGS.
MOUSE: What's going on?
CABLE: Oh, no. The windows are bricked up.
TANK: No, no, no.
CABLE: Morpheus! It's a trap
TRINITY: Oh, God.
CYPHER: That's what they changed. We're trapped. There's no way out. The sound of heavy BOOT-STEPS close around them with the mechanical sureness of a vice.
MORPHEUS: Give me your phone.
TRINITY: They'll be able to track it.
MORPHEUS: We have no choice.
TANK: Got it.
MORPHEUS: He cuts off the phone.
AGENT SMITH: Eighth floor. They're on the eighth floor.
AGENT BROWTJ: Eighth floor! Move!
AGENT BROWN: Where are they?
COP: They're in the walls!
AGENT SMITH: Are orders that hard to follow? I'll say it again. Morpheus must be taken alive. Understand?
AGENT SMITH: How like a rodent.
COP: I got him! I got him! Trinity finds her gun first. BULLET-HOLES POP out the WALL as she STRAFES the room, sending cops diving for They continue, Trinity exposed for a roment, when a creeping cop smashes a fist through and grabs a fistful of her hair. He starts to yank her out when Neo kicks, his boot bursting through plaster and splintering lathe, knocking the Cop out. They then quickly sink out of sight.
MORPHEUS: Come on! Cypher seems to trip as the cloud envelops him.
TANK: Nerve gas.
AGENT SMITH: We have them now.
MORPHEUS: You have to get Neo out. Understand? That's all that matters now.
TRINITY: Morpheus, don't
MORPHEUS: He must get out. Do you understand me? She nods. A font of water erupts as Morpheus leaps for the manhole ladder, his coat flying open like the wings of a manta There he is! That's him! Pools of light wash over him as he hauls himself to the He's heading for the street! Trinity urges the others to follow her. Grabbing Neo, they wade quietly away from the chaos.
COPS: There he is! That's him! Pools of light wash over him as he hauls himself to the He's heading for the street! Trinity urges the others to follow her. Grabbing Neo, they wade quietly away from the chaos.
COP: He's heading for the street! Trinity urges the others to follow her. Grabbing Neo, they wade quietly away from the chaos.
AGENT SMITH: So, we meet at last.
MORPHEUS: And you are?
AGENT SMITH: Smith. I am Agent Smith.
MORPHEUS: You all look the same to me.
AGENT SMITH: I've been waiting for this noment. Faster than a snake spits, Morpheus cracks Smith with a jaw-breaking right.
MORPHEUS: Oh, so have I. Agent Smith smiles.
AGENT SMITH: You can't win. Morpheus smiles.
MORPHEUS: I already have. He stands up and drops his fists; a steely resolve in his Take him. Cops swarm over Morpheus.
AGENT SMITH: Take him. Cops swarm over Morpheus.
TANK: EXT. HOTEL LAFAYETTE ( MATRIX ) - DAY Cuff ed and beaten, Morpheus is thrown into a caged transport vehicle. The DOOR CLANGS shut. Agent Jones finds Agent Smith.
AGENT JONES: The others were lost.
AGENT SMITH: You've taken care of Reagan? Agent Jones nods.
AGENT SMITH: Then the others do not matter.
TRINITY: We need a phone.
TANK: We gotta find the others. They're still alive. The PHONE RINGS.
TANK: CYPHER ( V.O. ) I need an exit! Fast!
TANK: Cypher? I thought they had you?
CYPHER: There was an accident. A fucking car accident. All of a sudden. Boom. They're all dead. I still got the shakes but, Jesus, someone's going to make a believer out of me.
DOZER: There he is.
TANK: I got you.
CYPHER: An actor. Definitely.
TANK: TRINITY ( V.O. ) Tank, it's me.
TRINITY: We need an exit!
TRINITY: Cypher, I thought
TRINITY: Got it. She hangs up.
TANK: Got him. Cypher's body twitches in its harness, jerking itself awake. His eyes blink open. Dozer unplugs him.
DOZER: System check looks fine. Cypher stands, a raspy cough spewing from his lungs.
DOZER: You okay?
CYPHER: Goddamn gas. My lungs are killing He crosses to an overhead bin.
CYPHER: We got any pain killers?
DOZER: The first aid kit's over here. As Dozer stoops for a cabinet, Cypher pulls back a heavy blanket exposing a plasma rifle.
DOZER: Tank spins as red hot wads of PLASMA EXPLODE through his chair and into his back. Diving, a second BURST tears up his side As Dozer shoots a look at the monitor where Tank was working. He stabs the enter command activating the exit sequence and ducks under a BARRAGE of PLASMA FIRE-
SWITCH: God, I love that sound.
TRINITY: You first,.Neo. Neo answers the phone when there is a CLICK. There is no signal. Nothing but silence.
TRINITY: What happened?
NEO: I don't know. It just went dead. Trinity listens to the dead line and takes out the INT. MAIN DECK The operator PHONE begins to RING- Cypher steps over the body of Tank and looks at the monitor.
TRINITY: Cypher? Where's Tank?
TRINITY: An accident? What about Dozer? Is Dozer there?
CYPHER: You know, for a long time, I thought I was in love with you, Trinity. I used to dream about He nuzzles his face against hers, feeling the softness of You are a beautiful woman. Too bad things had to work out like We INTERCUT BETWEEN the appliance store and the main You killed them.
CYPHER: You are a beautiful woman. Too bad things had to work out like We INTERCUT BETWEEN the appliance store and the main You killed them.
TRINITY: You killed them.
APOC: Oh God. Wearing Tank's operator headgear, Cypher moves among the silent bodies.
SWITCH: Oh God. Wearing Tank's operator headgear, Cypher moves among the silent bodies.
CYPHER: In a way you're very lucky. Most people never know why they die. One minute they're alive, the next they're dead. No warning. Nothing. That's why I thought maybe I should tell you. It seemed the least I could do. He stands over the body of Morpheus, as his anger boils up out of him.
CYPHER: You see, the truth, the real,truth is that the war is over. It's been over for a long time. And guess what? We lost! Did you hear that? We lost the war!
TRINITY: What about Zion?
CYPHER: Zion? Zion is a part of this delusion. More of this madness. That's why this has to be done. It has to end. Now and forever. She suddenly sees the entire dark plan.
TRINITY: Oh rny God. This is abzut Zion. You gave them Morpheus for the access codes to Zion. Cypher walks away from Morpheus and bends down next to Apoc's body.
CYPHER: You see, Trinity, we humans have a place in the future. But it's not here. It's in the Matrix.
TRINITY: The Matrix isn't real!
CYPHER: Oh, I disagree, Trinity. I disagree. I think the Matrix is more real than this world. I mean, all I do is pull a plug here. But there, you watch a man He grabs hold of the cable in Apoc's neck, twists it and yanks it out.
CYPHER: You tell me which is more real. Apoc seems to go blind for an instant, a scream caught in his throat, his hands reaching for nothing, and then falls dead. Switch screams.
CYPHER: Welcome to the real world, right? He laughs.
TRINITY: Somehow, some way, you're going to pay for this.
CYPHER: Pay for it? I'm not even going to remember it. It'll be like it never happened. The tree falling in the forest. It doesn't make a His hand slides around the neck of Switch as he takes hold of her plug. She suddenly feels her body severed from her mind as she is murdered.
TRINITY: Goddamn you, Cypher!
CYPHER: Don't hate me, Trinity. I'm just the messenger. And right now I'm going to prove that the message is He stands over Neo.
CYPHER: If Morpheus was right, then there's no way I can pull this plug, is there? She turns to Neo, eyes wide with fear, and he knows he is If he is the One, then in the next few seconds there has to be some kind of miracle to stop me. Because if he dies like the others that means Morpheus was wrong. How can he be the One if he's He takes hold of the cord when She hears an EXPLOSION and a scream. Cypher is on the ground, his left leg blown off at the knee. He rolls over and finds Tank on the ground, and the sights of the plasma rifle.
CYPHER: If he is the One, then in the next few seconds there has to be some kind of miracle to stop me. Because if he dies like the others that means Morpheus was wrong. How can he be the One if he's He takes hold of the cord when She hears an EXPLOSION and a scream. Cypher is on the ground, his left leg blown off at the knee. He rolls over and finds Tank on the ground, and the sights of the plasma rifle.
TANK: How's it feel, Cypher? Knowing you're about to die?
NEO: It's Tank! He's alive. Cypher lunges for Neo's plug just as Tank BLOWS his head INT. APPLIANCE STORE ( MATRIX ) - DAY They're both listening, trying to figure out what is happening when the store PHONE starts to RING. Trinity smiles, tears moistening her eyes as Neo throws his arms around her. For a moment, it looks as if they might kiss before Trinity lets go.
TRINITY: We should, we should hurry.
NEO: Yeah. Right.
TRINITY: Tank, you're hurt.
TANK: I'll be all right.
TRINITY: Tank's face tightens.
TRINITY: I'm sorry, Tank.
AGENT JONES: There is a problem. Reagan has failed to secure the hardware. Agent Smith stares out the window.
AGENT SMITH: Never send a human to do a machine's job.
AGENT JONES: But if Reagan has failed, why haven't they pulled the plug?
AGENT SMITH: Haven't you learned by now, that it is impossible to understand why they do the things they do? He turns.
AGENT SMITH: Continue as planned. Trace his signal to locate their position and deploy an extermination unit. Morpheus is handcuffed to a chair, stripped to the waist. He is bleeding from numerous wounds and is pumped full of serum, alternately shivering and sweating. He is hooked up to various monitors with white disk electrodes. Agent Brown begins running a trace program.
NEO: What are they doing to him?
TANK: They're cracking his mind.
NEO: They inject virus-like serums to break down the system. It's like cracking a computer. All it takes is time.
TANK: They inject virus-like serums to break down the system. It's like cracking a computer. All it takes is time.
NEO: How much time?
TANK: Depends on the mind. But eventually, it will crack and his alpha pattern will change from this to this. Tank punches several commands on Morpheus' personal unit. The monitor waves change from a chaotic pattern to an orderly symmetrical one.
TANK: When it does, Morpheus will tell them anything they want to know.
NEO: The access codes to Zion.
TANK: If an agent got inside Zion's mainframe he could do anything. Disable the defense system. It would be the end of us. He looks up at Trinity who is pacing relentlessly.
TANK: We can't let that happen. We have to do it, Trinity. Zion has to be Trinity sees Cypher's dead body. Rage overtakes her and she starts kicking hin.
TRINITY: Goddamnit! Goddamnit!
TANK: We have to pull the plug.
TRINITY: We don't have any other choice. Those words are like using gasoline to put out a fire and we watch the pain in her eyes burn into a blaze. She walks past him and gets into her chair.
TANK: We don't have any other choice. Those words are like using gasoline to put out a fire and we watch the pain in her eyes burn into a blaze. She walks past him and gets into her chair.
TANK: Trinity, what are you doing?
TRINITY: I'm going in after him.
TANK: Morpheus could conform at any If he does I'm sure you'll do what has to be done.
TRINITY: If he does I'm sure you'll do what has to be done.
TANK: You saw that place. It's suicide. She glares at him.
TANK: I know what Morpheus means to No. No, I don't think you do. If you did, then you would know that I'm not letting him go. Not without a fight, Tank. She yanks her harness tight.
TRINITY: No. No, I don't think you do. If you did, then you would know that I'm not letting him go. Not without a fight, Tank. She yanks her harness tight.
TRINITY: Not without a fight.
AGENT SMITH: Have you ever stood and stared at it, Morpheus? Marveled at its beauty. Its genius. Billions of people just living out their lives. oblivious. Agent Brown sucks a serum from a glass vial, filling a hypodermic needle.
AGENT SMITH: Did you know that the first Matrix was designed to be a perfect human world? Where none suffered, where everyone would be happy. It was a disaster. No one would accept the program. Entire crops were lost. Agent Brown jams the needle into Morpheus' shoulder, and plunges down.
AGENT SMITH: Some believed we lacked the programming language to describe your perfect world. But I believe that, as a species, human beings define their reality through suffering and misery. Agent Brown studies the screens as the life signs react violently to the injection.
AGENT SMITH: The perfect world was a dream that your primitive cerebrum kept trying to wake up from. Which is why the Matrix was re-designed to this: the peak of your He turns from the window.
AGENT SMITH: I say 'your civilization' because as soon as we start thinking for you, it really becomes our civilization, which is, of course, what this is all about. He sits down directly in front of Morpheus.
AGENT SMITH: Evolution, Morpheus. Evolution. He lifts Morpheus' head.
AGENT SMITH: Like the dinosaur. Look out that window. You had your time. Morpheus stares hard at him, trying hard not to show the pain racking his mind.
AGENT SMITH: The future is our world, Morpheus. The future is our time.
TRINITY: What do you think you're doing?
NEO: You need help. I'm coming with No. No way. Morpheus sacrificed himself so you could escape. There's no way you're going back Morpheus did what he did because he believed that I'm something that I'm not.
TRINITY: No. No way. Morpheus sacrificed himself so you could escape. There's no way you're going back Morpheus did what he did because he believed that I'm something that I'm not.
NEO: Morpheus did what he did because he believed that I'm something that I'm not.
TRINITY: I'm not the One, Trinity. The Oracle told me. Trinity is stunned.
NEO: I'm not the One, Trinity. The Oracle told me. Trinity is stunned.
NEO: She said I had a gift but I still had a lot to learn. She told me maybe next life.
TRINITY: Did you tell Morpheus?
NEO: Why? It wouldn't mean anything. He'd still believe what he wanted to believe. But Morpheus is the one that matters. He's more important than me and we both know He straps in.
NEO: I may not be what Morpheus thinks I am, but if I don't try to help him, then I'm not even what I think I am.
TRINITY: What are you?
NEO: His friend.
AGENT SMITH: I'd like to share a revelation that I've had during my time here. It came to me when I tried to classify your species. I've realized that you are not actually The life signs continue their chaotic patterns.
AGENT SMITH: Every mammal on this planet instinctively develops a natural equilibrium with the surrounding environment. But you humans do not. You move to an area and you multiply and multiply until every natural resource is consumed and the only way you can survive is to spread to another area. He leans forward.
AGENT SMITH: There is another organism on this planet that follows the same pattern. Do you know what it is? A virus. He smiles.
AGENT SMITH: Human beings are a disease, a cancer of this planet. You are a plague. And we are. the cure.
TANK: Okay. Store's open. What do you Guns. Lots of guns.
TANK: Coming right up. He loads the weapons disk.
TRINITY: No one has ever done anything like He snap cocks an Uzi.
NEO: He snap cocks an Uzi.
NEO: That's why it's going to work.
AGENT SMITH: Why isn't the serum working?
AGENT BROWN: Perhaps we are asking the wrong Or he doesn't know.
AGENT JONES: Or he doesn't know.
AGENT SMITH: Of course he knows. He's I don't know. If I knew. Agent Smith hides his knotting fist. He is becoming angry. It is something that isn't supposed to happen to Leave me with him. Agent Brown and Jones look at each other.
AGENT BROWN: AGENT SMITH I don't know. If I knew. Agent Smith hides his knotting fist. He is becoming angry. It is something that isn't supposed to happen to AGENT SMITH Leave me with him. Agent Brown and Jones look at each other.
AGENT SMITH: I don't know. If I knew. Agent Smith hides his knotting fist. He is becoming angry. It is something that isn't supposed to happen to Leave me with him. Agent Brown and Jones look at each other.
AGENT SMITH: Leave me with him. Agent Brown and Jones look at each other.
AGENT SMITH: INT. MAIN DECK Tank sits down beside Morpheus whose face is ashen like someone near death. He takes hold of his hand.
TANK: Hold on, Morpheus. They're coming for you. They're coming.
AGENT SMITH: Can you hear me, Morpheus? I'm going to be honest with you. He removes his earphone, letting it dangle over his I hate this place. This zoo. This prison. This reality, whatever you want to call it, I can't stand it any longer. It's the smell, if there is such a thing. I feel saturated by it. I can taste your stink and every time I do, I fear that I've somehow been infected by it. He wipes sweat from Morpheus' forehead, coating the tips of his fingers, holding them to Morpheus' nose.
AGENT SMITH: I hate this place. This zoo. This prison. This reality, whatever you want to call it, I can't stand it any longer. It's the smell, if there is such a thing. I feel saturated by it. I can taste your stink and every time I do, I fear that I've somehow been infected by it. He wipes sweat from Morpheus' forehead, coating the tips of his fingers, holding them to Morpheus' nose.
AGENT SMITH: Repulsive, isn't it? He lifts Morpheus' head, holding it tightly with both I must get out of here, I must get free. In this mind is tlie key. My key. Morpheus sneers through his pain.
AGENT SMITH: I must get out of here, I must get free. In this mind is tlie key. My key. Morpheus sneers through his pain.
AGENT SMITH: Once Zion is gone, there's no need for me to be here. Do you understand? I need the codes. I have to get inside Zion. You have to tell me how. He begins squeezing, his fingers gouging into his flesh.
AGENT SMITH: Tell me! Tell me! The skull is about to shatter when Agents Jones and Brown burst into the room. Agent Smith releases Morpheus.
AGENT BROWN: What were you doing? Agent Smith recovers, replacing his ear piece.
AGENT JONES: You don't know.
AGENT SMITH: Know what? Agent Smith listens to his earphone, not believing what he is hearing.
AGENT JONES: I think they're trying to save INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT ( MATRIX ) - DAY Neo ratchets down a clamp onto the elevator cable. Both of them lock on. He looks up the long, dark throat of the building and takes a deep breath.
NEO: There is no spoon. Neo whips out his gun and presses it to the cable, lower than where they attached themselves. BOOM! The CABLE SNAPS. The counter-weights plummet, yanking Trinity and Neo up through the shaft as The elevator falls away beneath them, distending space, filling it with the sound of WHISTLING METAL as they soar to the top.
AGENT JONES: Lower level
AGENT BROWN: They are actually attacking.
AGENT SMITH: Find them and destroy them! Agent Jones nods and touches his ear piece.
PILOT: I repeat, we are under attack! Suddenly his face, his whole body dissolves, consumed by spreading locust-like swarm, of STATIC as Agent Jones emerges. Just as she drops the last Marine, Trinity sees what's Neo sees her, the fear in her face, and he knows what is behind him. Screaming, he whirls, GUNS filling his hands with Fingers PUMPING, SHELLS ejecting, dancing up and away, we look through the sights and gun smoke at The Agent blurred with motion Until the HAMMERS CLICK against empty metal.
NEO: Agent Jones charges.
NEO: . help. His GUN BOOMS as we enter the liquid space of The AIR SIZZLES with wads of lead-like angry flies as Neo twists, bends, ducks just between them. Agent Jones still running, narrows the gap, the BULLETS coming faster until Neo bent impossibly back, one hand on the ground as a spiraling gray ball shears open his shoulder. He starts to scream as another digs a red groove across his thigh. He has only time to look up, to see the barrel when Agent Jones, standing over him, pulls the TRIGGER the final CLICK. Empty. Neo rolls, reaching for another gun when around-house kick snaps his jaw. Agent Jones grabs the gun and levels it at Neo.
AGENT JONES: Only human. Suddenly Agent Jones stops. Something is wrong. He scans the roof. Trinity is gone. Immediately, he whirls around and turns straight into the muzzle of her .45 Jammed right into his head.
TRINITY: Dodge this, motherfucker! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The body flies back with a flash of mercurial light and when it hits the ground It is the pilot. Trinity helps Neo up.
NEO: You're hit
TRINITY: You're hit
NEO: I'm fine. Neo is already looking at the helicopter.
NEO: Can you fly that thing?
TRINITY: Not yet. She pulls out a cellular phone.
TANK: TRINITY ( V.O. ) Tank, I need a pilot program for a military M-109 helicopter. Tank is immediately searching the disk drawers.
TRINITY: Let's go.
SERGEANT: Sir! Sir! There was gunfire we've lost communication with the Remain at your posts.
AGENT JONES: Remain at your posts.
SERGEANT: But, sir the fire we should You will do as you are ordered!
AGENT JONES: You will do as you are ordered!
SERGEANT: Yes, sir. Agent Jones marches into the Presidential Suite.
INTO VIEW: Neo is in the back bay, aiming the mounted .50 machine The GUN jumps and BULLETS EXPLODE through the WINDOW in a cacophony of CRASHING GLASS As the Agents go for their weapons. But Neo is too close, the .50 CALIBER too fast and BULLETS are everywhere, perforating the room. Agent Smith is hit first, his body jack-knifing back, blood arcing out with a sudden flash of light Then Agent Brown, his GUN still FIRING as his body falls. And finally Agent Jones. Neo stares at Morpheus, trying to will him into action.
AGENT SMITH: The GUN jumps and BULLETS EXPLODE through the WINDOW in a cacophony of CRASHING GLASS As the Agents go for their weapons. But Neo is too close, the .50 CALIBER too fast and BULLETS are everywhere, perforating the room. Agent Smith is hit first, his body jack-knifing back, blood arcing out with a sudden flash of light Then Agent Brown, his GUN still FIRING as his body falls. And finally Agent Jones. Neo stares at Morpheus, trying to will him into action.
NEO: Get up, Morpheus! Get up! Morpheus sits unmoving, his head still down. Neo grabs the climbing rope just as marines burst into the adjoining room. He attaches only one end to his harness when they OPEN
AGENT SMITH: He FIRES, sweeping across the sheetrocked wall in a perfect line. For an instant, we see the BULLETS SHRED, PUNCTURING the WALL, searing through the wet air with jet trails of And as Morpheus starts to dive for the window, a bullet buries itself in his leg Knocking him off balance.
NEO: He won't make it. Morpheus lunges, out of control As Neo spins, every move a whip crack Snapping the other rope-end onto a bolted bar. Morpheus begins to fall when Neo hurls himself into the wide blue empty space Flying for a moment. The rope snaking out behind him; an umbilical cord attached to a machine. As their two bodies, set in motion, rushing at each other on a seemingly magnetic course until They collide. Almost bouncing free of each other, arms, legs, scrambling, hands searching in furious desperation, finding hold and clinging. Until the line ends, snapping taut, cracking their fragile embrace. Morpheus tumbles, legs flipping over, falling down The ground deliriously distant As Neo snatches hold of his mentor's still handcuffed Trinity is already pulling the copter up and away. As Agent Smith grabs the M-16 from the nearest marine. He'll bring them all down. Targeting the helicopter, he aims at something only he can see: the oil line. PONK. PONK. PONK. The rear HULL is PUNCHED full of holes and smoke and oil pours out like black blood.
NEO: Trinity is already pulling the copter up and away. As Agent Smith grabs the M-16 from the nearest marine. He'll bring them all down. Targeting the helicopter, he aims at something only he can see: the oil line. PONK. PONK. PONK. The rear HULL is PUNCHED full of holes and smoke and oil pours out like black blood.
TRINITY: Neo is pulling Morpheus up to him when he hears the
NEO: Oh fuck. Trinity throws the helicopter towards the roof of the nearest building. Morpheus and Neo cling to one another as they and the machine above them begin to fall. The ENGINE GRINDS, the CHOPPING BLADES start to slow The Agents stand in the open shattered window, watching the helicopter disappear behind taller buildings. Carried by its nomentum, Trinity guides the parabolic fall over the nearest roof where Neo and Morpheus drop safely, rolling free as the rope goes slack. Neo gets to his feet, trying to detach himself but The helicopter is falling too fast, arcing over the roof like a setting sun The coils of slack snap taught Yanking Neo off his feet, dragging him with ferocious speed towards the edge even as Trinity lunges for the back door, her gun in one hand, grabbing for the rope with the other Neo flies like a skipping stone, hurtling straight AT us, when his feet hit the rain gutter A fulcrum that levers him up just as Trinity FIRES, severing the cord from the HELICOPTER, falling free of it as it SMASHES, blades first into a glass skyscraper. Holding onto the rope she swings, connected to Neo, who stands on the building's edge watching her arc beneath him as the HELICOPTER EXPLODES She bounces against a shatterproof window that spider- cracks out while FLAMES ERUPT behind her.
TANK: He's the One. He's got to be.
MORPHEUS: I knew it! I goddamn knew it!
TRINITY: She runs at him, throwing her arms around him.
MORPHEUS: Do you believe me now? He's the One! Who else could have done Morpheus, I know you won't believe me but the Oracle told ne I'm not the One.
NEO: Morpheus, I know you won't believe me but the Oracle told ne I'm not the One.
MORPHEUS: It doesn't matter if I don't believe you His eyes light up.
MORPHEUS: What matters is that you don't believe her.
TANK: Got one ready. An underground El station. State and Balbo.
TANK: See ya soon.
AGENT BROWN: The trace was completed.
AGENT JONES: We have their position.
AGENT BROWN: The extermination unit is in Order the strike. Agent Smith can't stand listening to them. He moves to the edge of the building, looking out at the surrounding They're not out yet.
AGENT JONES: Order the strike. Agent Smith can't stand listening to them. He moves to the edge of the building, looking out at the surrounding They're not out yet.
AGENT SMITH: They're not out yet.
NEO: The Old Man stops, Neo rushes at hin, gliding smoothly over the turnstiles.
OLD MAN: I'm sorry I didn't mean! The Old Man is shaking, terrified. Neo looks at his gun. He glances over his shoulder, then eases back the hammer.
NEO: Get outta here. Okay? Run! Go! The Old Man nods, turns and hurries deeper into the urban cave, disappearing into the shadows as Trinity and Morpheus arrive.
TRINITY: What happened? Was that
NEO: It was nobody. Neo turns to the RINGING BOOTH.
NEO: Let's go! You first, Morpheus. Morpheus gets in and answers the phone. Lost in the shadow, the Old Man turns back and watches as Morpheus disappears, the phone dropping, dangling by its His eyes grow wide, glowing white in the dark.
TRINITY: Morpheus is right, you know. It doesn't matter what he believes or even what the Oracle believes. What matters is what you believe.
NEO: I believe. He stares at the fullness of her lips.
NEO: I want to kiss you. She smiles.
TRINITY: I want to kiss you too. The PHONE begins to RING.
TRINITY: But I want it to be real. She pulls herself away and gets into the booth when something catches Neo's eye and he looks to where the Old Man had been. She hears him SCREAM and sees Agent Smith emerge as if formed by congealing darkness, charging with a fistful of The GUN FIRES, the BULLET flying at her, BURSTING through the plastic WINDOW just as Trinity disappears. The handset hanging in the air as the BULLET HITS, SHATTERING the EAR-PIECE.
TRINITY: What the hell just happened?
TANK: What the hell just happened?
TRINITY: An Agent! You have to send me I can't!
TANK: I can't!
AGENT SMITH: You're empty. Neo pulls the TRIGGER. CLICK.
NEO: So are you. The smile falls. Agent Smith yanks his TRIGGER.
AGENT SMITH: You can't win.
NEO: I already have. He attacks with a vicious series of blows but the Agent seems to absorb them, waiting for his opening. And this time Agent Smith's attack is too much, an unrelenting fury, fists pounding like jackhammers.
TRINITY: Jesus, he's killing him!
TRINITY: Send me back, Tank! Anywhere!
TANK: I'm looking, Trinity! I'm From the cockpit, an ALARM sounds. Morpheus hurries to the front console, typing, bringing up the radar. Trinity follows him.
TRINITY: What is it. oh no. In every pipe surrounding them, they see the Extermination Unit.
TRINITY: INT. SEWER MAIN The killing machine we saw in the History Program blister by us like tracer bullets shot down the throat of the INT. "EL" STATION ( MATRIX ) - DAY Neo tries to get up. Agent Smith jumps down onto the tracks and drop-kicks him in the face. The world begins to shake, RUMBLING as the TRAIN NEARS.
AGENT SMITH: Do you hear that, Mr. Anderson? Agent Smith grabs Neo in a choke-hold, forcing him to look down the tracks, the train's headlight burning a hole in the darkness.
AGENT SMITH: That is the sound of Neo sees it coming and he starts to fight.
AGENT SMITH: It is the sound of your death. There is another METAL SCREECH, MUCH LOUDER, closer, as Agent Smith tightens his hold. Neo is unable to breathe.
AGENT SMITH: Goodbye, Mr. Anderson. The TRAIN ROARS at them, swallowing Agent Smith's words. The veins bulge in Neo's head, as he grits through the He is not ready to die.
NEO: My name is Neo. Impossibly, he hurls himself straight up, smashing Smith against the concrete ceiling of the tunnel. They fall as the sound and fury of the TRAIN EXPLODES INTO the station. Neo back-flips up off the tracks just as The train barrels over Agent Smith. Neo stands, knees shaking, when the train slams on its emergency brake. With an ear-splitting SHRIEK of TORTURED RAILS, the train slows, part of it still in the Neo turns, limping, starting to run, racing for the As the train comes to a stop and the doors of the last car open; Agent Smith bursts out in furious pursuit, his glasses again intact.
TRINITY: You can't use that until Neo is I know. Don't worry, he'll make EXT. CITY STREET ( MATRIX ) - DAY A man sits in his Mercedes, talking on his car phone when his door is thrown open. Neo yanks him out and jumps in. Further down the street, Agent Smith slows, calmly touching his ear-piece. Neo throws the car across traffic, rocketing down a side- INT. CAR ( MATRIX ) - DAY Driving like a demon with one hand, he grabs the car phone and dials long distance.
MORPHEUS: I know. Don't worry, he'll make EXT. CITY STREET ( MATRIX ) - DAY A man sits in his Mercedes, talking on his car phone when his door is thrown open. Neo yanks him out and jumps in. Further down the street, Agent Smith slows, calmly touching his ear-piece. Neo throws the car across traffic, rocketing down a side- INT. CAR ( MATRIX ) - DAY Driving like a demon with one hand, he grabs the car phone and dials long distance.
TANK: NEO ( V.O. ) Mr. Wizard, Get me the fuck out of here!
NEO: Hurry, Tank! I got some serious INT. HOVERCRAFT The keyboard clicking, Tank searches for an exit. Trinity screams into the headset.
TRINITY: Neo, you better get your ass back INT. CAR I'm trying, Trinity. I'm trying.
NEO: I'm trying, Trinity. I'm trying.
TANK: I'm going to make the call.
MORPHEUS: Do it!
TRINITY: Where is he?
TANK: Almost there.
MORPHEUS: He's going to make it.
TRINITY: Hurry, Neo.
AGENT SMITH: Check him.
TRINITY: No-no-no! Neo, you're not dead! You can't be dead!
AGENT BROWN: He's gone. Agent Smith smiles, standing over him.
AGENT SMITH: I told you, you couldn't win.
TRINITY: You're right here. I'm holding you, Neo. I'm not letting you go. Do you hear me? I won't let you INT. HALL ( MATRIX ) - DAY The agents walk to the elevator, leaving Neo's body INT. HOVERCRAFT Morpheus flicks the Plexiglas shield of the self- Goddamnit, Neo! Don't give it up! Not now! She pounds on his chest.
TRINITY: Goddamnit, Neo! Don't give it up! Not now! She pounds on his chest.
TRINITY: Not now!
TRINITY: Now get up!
AGENT SMITH: Agent Smith pounds on the elevator door.
TRINITY: He turns the key.
TRINITY: His eyes open. Tears pour from her smiling eyes as he reaches up to touch her. And she kisses hin; it seems like it might last forever.
BOY: Mommy! Mommy!
MOMMY: That man! That man flies!
BOY: That man! That man flies!
MOMMY: Don't be silly, honey. Men don't There is a RUSH of AIR as the Boy stares up as Neo shoots overhead. His coat billowing like a black leather cape as he soars up, up, and away.
THE END: Writers : Larry Wachowski Andy Wachowski
