MAX PAYNE: Written by
MAX'S VOICE: I don't believe in heaven, but I have this idea about it. Something I heard in a song.
C: I don't believe in heaven, but I have this idea about it. Something I heard in a song.
MAX'S VOICE: Heaven is a place where nothing ever
MAX'S VOICE: There's an army of bodies under this river. Criminals, people who ran out of time, out of friends.
MAX'S VOICE: The next time they drag this river, they'll find me on the bottom with the rest of them. And there won't be anybody left to say I was different.
BEDROOM: A WOMAN sleeps on the bed, curled up around a bundled BABY. Is this the final, peaceful memory of a drowning man?
MAX'S VOICE: I could feel the dead down there, just below my feet. Reaching up to welcome me as one of their own.
MAX'S VOICE: It was an easy mistake to make.
SUBWAY BATHROOM: The Men slink into the bathroom, smirking at their oblivious prey at the sink. Steam rising, he sets the watch on the edge of the sink before washing his hands.
MAN #1: Hey, that's a really nice watch.
MAN #1: ( drooling over the watch ) Kinda reminds me of one I lost
MAX: You didn't lose it. You pawned it up on 128th a few hours ago.
MAX: ( nodding to Man #2 ) Ask Doug. He was there with you.
DOUG: You've been following us all night?
MAX: ( pointing ) I'm only following you.
PAWNSHOP: You a cop, or something?
MAX: Not tonight.
PAWNSHOP: Too bad. Go get my watch.
DOUG: ( craving, eyes closed ) Watch over me, watch over me.
MAX: Open your eyes, now.
MAX: Have you ever seen her before?
MAX: You got busted robbing a house in New Jersey with William Preston three
DOUG: Bill's dead.
MAX: That's why I'm talking to you. Did he ever say anything about this woman? Did you ever hear anyone
DOUG: Bill died because their wings couldn't lift him up.
MAX: No, he got shot robbing a liquor store. What are you talking about?
DOUG: ( incoherent, rambling ) Their wings are golden, the feathers only look black.
PLATFORM: Max stalks out of the bathroom, pushing Doug ahead of him. Down on the tracks, the Kid shrinks into the shadows.
SUBWAY TUNNEL: The Kid runs down the dark tracks, nervously glancing back at the receding light of the platform. He slows gradually, relaxing as escape seems certain.
I: NT. COLD CASE OFFICE - DAY The front room of the cold case department is a mess - desks piled high with paperwork and a week's worth of coffee cups.
SGT. ADAMS: You my new guy?
DETECTIVE: I didn't think anybody was here.
SGT. ADAMS: Everybody's usually a little late.
HALLWAY: Sgt. Adams leads the detective down a hall, giving the tour.
SGT. ADAMS: All the cold investigations in the city are collected and delivered over to us. We call each witness to see if they can add anything to their original statement.
DETECTIVE: And if they can?
SGT. ADAMS: We send the file back to the original precinct for follow-up. Don't get your hopes up, though.
SGT. ADAMS: Once you've gone through the file and come up empty, bring it here.
D: SGT. ADAMS
M: SGT. ADAMS
SGT. ADAMS: Max here handles our filing. Once it hits his desk, a case is officially dead.
D: What if there's no phone number for a witness? Should I follow up in person?
ETECTIVE: What if there's no phone number for a witness? Should I follow up in person?
SGT. ADAMS: Nope, we don't do that down here.
DETECTIVE: I don't understand, then how
SGT. ADAMS: How do you solve that unsolvable murder mystery and redeem yourself?
DETECTIVE: The grand jury couldn't find
SGT. ADAMS: Stop. Trust me, there's a tragic story behind why I'm here giving you this tour. We all did something, so just save it. Follow me to the break room.
DETECTIVE: We should get a beer after work, or
MAX: Yeah. Maybe so.
HALLWAY: The Detective steals a look at Max as Adams shuts his door.
DETECTIVE: So what did he do?
W: SGT. ADAMS ( sharply )
M: SGT. ADAMS ( sharply )
J: SGT. ADAMS ( sharply )
SGT. ADAMS: ( sharply )
SGT. ADAMS: emember when you were a kid, and you'd hold your breath when you went past a
R: emember when you were a kid, and you'd hold your breath when you went past a
SGT. ADAMS: ust.try to leave him alone.
MAX'S OFFICE: Max sneaks a sideways glance to the door, watching Adams lead the new Detective away. Once they're gone, Max reaches into his desk and removes a file. `PRESTON, WILLIAM A.'
KITCHEN: .past a table with one chair, past gleaming counters. Max fills a glass of water from the tap. Eyes blank, patient.
LIVING ROOM: Carefully, Max rests the full glass on the arm of the chair. Reaching underneath the chair, Max produces an artist's sketchbook and places it delicately on the table before him.
V: More flowing brush strokes, the artist's feminine initials. Max reaches up to turn the page, hands shaking severely.
I: More flowing brush strokes, the artist's feminine initials. Max reaches up to turn the page, hands shaking severely.
CLOSET: The door swings open. Hanging inside, the battered coat we saw Max wear in the subway. A pistol on a hook by the door. Urban armor, scarred by countless nights of service.
M: ax walks up the street, brushing past HOMELESS PEOPLE and FASHIONISTAS jostling for the same space on the sidewalk.
MAX: William Preston was a dead end.
TREVOR: You can't come here, I said. I'm done helping you. I've already. .paid my debt to society, you know? I've cooperated enough.
MAX: We need to talk. Won't take long.
T: TREVOR'S APARTMENT - ENTRANCE HALL Max follows Trevor inside. The narrow brick entry opens into a cutting-edge loft beyond, filled with modern art and a gathering of BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE milling around enjoying it.
I: TREVOR'S APARTMENT - ENTRANCE HALL Max follows Trevor inside. The narrow brick entry opens into a cutting-edge loft beyond, filled with modern art and a gathering of BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE milling around enjoying it.
M: TREVOR'S APARTMENT - ENTRANCE HALL Max follows Trevor inside. The narrow brick entry opens into a cutting-edge loft beyond, filled with modern art and a gathering of BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE milling around enjoying it.
TREVOR: I thought you found Bill's partner.
MAX: I did, but Doug only wanted to talk about pigeons, or something. I need a new name, someone robbing houses to feed a habit around that same time.
T: Three years is a lifetime for guys like that. One way or the other, they're probably all gone now. Either way, I'm not the one to ask anymore. I cater to a better class, now.
REVOR: Three years is a lifetime for guys like that. One way or the other, they're probably all gone now. Either way, I'm not the one to ask anymore. I cater to a better class, now.
MAX: I can see that.
TREVOR: This is a party. These are my friends. You remember friends?
AX: I need another name, or I start frisking your friends.
TREVOR: don't have one to give you, Max. Look, you've gone through all your living leads, now you're running out of dead I don't think this guy's out there.
TREVOR: ry sleeping at night every now and then, you'd see that for yourself.
W: M N Max doesn't answer. His eyes have drifted back to Natasha. She plucks a drink from a passing tray, revealing a dark smudge across the inside of her wrist as she does.
Y: Max doesn't answer. His eyes have drifted back to Natasha. She plucks a drink from a passing tray, revealing a dark smudge across the inside of her wrist as she does.
T: Max doesn't answer. His eyes have drifted back to Natasha. She plucks a drink from a passing tray, revealing a dark smudge across the inside of her wrist as she does.
TREVOR: I'd invite you in, but.
MAX: LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Max weaves through the party towards Natasha, out of place in his utilitarian clothes. She looks up as he gets closer.
N: ou decided to stay for a while.
ATASHA: ou decided to stay for a while.
NATASHA: ow it's your turn to say something.
MAX: That's interesting.
NATASHA: Thank you. It's.
MAX: Why don't you let go
S: ( in perfect English ) Mind your business.
MONA: ( in perfect English ) Mind your business.
I: t happens in a flash: Mona spins and takes hold of Max's arm. Incredibly, he's just as fast, slipping free of the grip that would surely have snapped his wrist.
NATASHA: My sister. Sort of a bitch.
TREVOR: You have to go. Now.
MAX: ( pulling free ) Fine. I just want to ask her something
N: A flickering glow escapes the gaps around one door.
S: A flickering glow escapes the gaps around one door.
A: A flickering glow escapes the gaps around one door.
DARK ROOM: A ring of candles in the center of the floor provides the only light. It's not enough to really see the PEOPLE inside. We hear them CHANTING, low voices MURMURING in unison.
HALLWAY: As Max strains to see detail in the dark room, a face materializes in the haze: cheeks laced with tattoos, eyes twinkling flames sunk in deep shadow. JACK LUPINO.
N: Looking for me?
ATASHA: Looking for me?
MAX: Were you in there?
ATASHA: ( shrugging, coy ) Take me somewhere, I'll tell you.
NATASHA: You just move in?
I: Not really interested, Natasha walks deeper into the room.
T: Not really interested, Natasha walks deeper into the room.
M: Not really interested, Natasha walks deeper into the room.
AX: hree years ago. So we're somewhere, now: who was that guy
HALLWAY: Max moves down the hallway, following a trail of clothing. From inside a room, we hear the faint sound of CHANTING.
BEDROOM: In Max's bed, a thin sheet barely covers Natasha's body. Her lips tremble with a slurred SONG. With predatory eyes, she watches Max stop in the doorway, something holding him back.
N: ( frustrated sigh ) Fine. What was her name?
ATASHA: ( frustrated sigh ) Fine. What was her name?
MAX: The girl from the boring story you want tell me. The one that ends with you living here. Very sad.
NATASHA: The girl from the boring story you want tell me. The one that ends with you living here. Very sad.
NATASHA: tell you what. Call me by her name.
MAX: ( startled )
NATASHA: That way you can make love to her again, just like she never left you. Oh, Max, I miss you.
A: Like a switch, Max's face closes off again.
N: Like a switch, Max's face closes off again.
Y: Like a switch, Max's face closes off again.
M: Like a switch, Max's face closes off again.
AX: You should go.
NATASHA: Excuse me?
MAX: ( exhausted, to himself ) There's nothing you can tell me.
N: ou're kicking me out of your bed?
ATASHA: ou're kicking me out of your bed?
MAX: Natasha stomps into the hall, gathering her clothes. She pulls a cell phone from her crumpled pants and dials.
NATASHA: ( on phone ) Owen, pick up if you're awake.
N: Natasha barrels down the alley, squinting to see ahead. The music is a little louder, BASS shaking the dumpsters.
R: Natasha barrels down the alley, squinting to see ahead. The music is a little louder, BASS shaking the dumpsters.
A: Natasha barrels down the alley, squinting to see ahead. The music is a little louder, BASS shaking the dumpsters.
ALLEY: Natasha barrels down the alley, squinting to see ahead. The music is a little louder, BASS shaking the dumpsters.
A: wind picks up, garbage blowing.
NATASHA: ot yet! Please, just let me.
OFFICE: Max moves up the sidewalk, nearly at the steps of his office. A rough-running ENGINE idles up the street, getting closer. Slowly, Max realizes that he's being followed. He turns.
A: LEX HILLMAN sits behind the wheel - about Max's age, but in much rougher condition, everything about him a little ashen. He watches Max turn away from the office and move closer.
S: INT. ALEX'S CAR - DAY Alex and Max ride in silence, a palpable tension in the car.
A: INT. ALEX'S CAR - DAY Alex and Max ride in silence, a palpable tension in the car.
ALEX: You're not serious, are you?
T: hey've parked at a crime scene - the alley in front of them sealed with police tape, COPS posted to keep onlookers away.
MAX: What's this?
ALEX: I need you to look at something.
MAX: What happened to them?
ALEX: Her. Just one.
ALEX: omebody found her leg near the sidewalk, called it in a few hours later. We found the other one in the dumpster over there.
M: Max and Alex turn to see that they've attracted spectators, the other DETECTIVES D the alley watching them intently.
A: Max and Alex turn to see that they've attracted spectators, the other DETECTIVES D the alley watching them intently.
ETECTIVE #1: Don't tell me you two are gonna start working together again. I'd
LEX: ( ignoring ) What do we know?
DETECTIVE #1: Only that it didn't happen here. Beyond that, I don't even know how to describe it in my report. `Disassembled,' that's the word we came up with.
MAX: Why are you showing me this?
ALEX: We found it here, by her heart.
ALEX: As far as we know, the victim
MAX: ( quiet )
MAX: ( remembering ) They couldn't lift him up.
ALEX: What did you just say?
F: ( 2 ) We need to talk, Max. Tonight. Here's my address.
ALEX: We need to talk, Max. Tonight. Here's my address.
MAX: For God's sake, I know where you
ALEX: ( somber ) No, I moved out.
MAX: Alex? Are you in here?
KITCHEN: Pistol ready, Max moves into the kitchen. Dirty dishes, flies swarming around the necks of countless liquor bottles.
U: nseen behind Max's back, the front door pushes closed.
HALLWAY: Max creeps down a hallway. His shoes CRUNCH in something:
A: A broken mirror scattered in the hallway, the pieces growing more concentrated towards the dark end of the hall.
M: A broken mirror scattered in the hallway, the pieces growing more concentrated towards the dark end of the hall.
MAX: FOOTSTEPS grow closer.slow, steady.
A: nother reflection shows a set of eyes. Frozen. Frantic. It's Alex, staring at Max, seeming to silently beg for help. Max looks from the reflection to the legs. There's no way.
B: The FLAPPING grows louder, gusting WIND scattering glass. Max SHOUTS, disoriented, instinctively pushing himself on. Alex's eyes, frozen wide, watch as Max crawls closer.
T: The FLAPPING grows louder, gusting WIND scattering glass. Max SHOUTS, disoriented, instinctively pushing himself on. Alex's eyes, frozen wide, watch as Max crawls closer.
Y: The FLAPPING grows louder, gusting WIND scattering glass. Max SHOUTS, disoriented, instinctively pushing himself on. Alex's eyes, frozen wide, watch as Max crawls closer.
I: NT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY Max's eyes pop open.
BB: our contact information was. pretty out of date, you know, but one of the dispatchers remembered me and your dad riding together back in the day.
MAX: BB nods, shivering at the mental image his name produces.
BB: he first unit to respond must've scared them away before they could do the same thing to you. Pretty remarkable, considering your luck.
MAX: He was trying to tell me something.
B: Was he alive when you showed up? Did you get a look at the guys who
M: No. I get Bflashes, but it's.wrong.
J: No. I get Bflashes, but it's.wrong.
M: No. I get Bflashes, but it's.wrong.
MAX: No. I get Bflashes, but it's.wrong.
B: I hate to say it, but you need to come up with something better than that. They've got nothing for leads, so the whole force has you pegged as the prime suspect.
AX: You tell them where to find me.
BB: No need. The funeral starts in an hour.
BB: ust slow down. You need to
AX: What I need is to borrow some dress blues. Can you help me out?
BB: ( reluctant ) Yeah. My office is on the way.
D: .J. ( V.O. )
I: BB starts across the sidewalk to the entrance. Max follows, giving a confused frown at the building they're approaching.
B: BB starts across the sidewalk to the entrance. Max follows, giving a confused frown at the building they're approaching.
MAX: You quit working for Aesir?
B: I didn't quit, they made me head of security for the whole parent company. That comes with its own building, such that it is. Check this out.
MAX: ( impatient ) It's a bullet hole.
BB: Yeah, from a musket ball. The British used this place as a military prison during the Revolutionary War. Think about that. It's older than St. Paul's.
M: ax looks up at the crumbling gargoyles perched above.
BB: hen the weather isn't so shitty, the view is unbelievable. I'm not making any guarantees that any of this will fit.
W: hen the weather isn't so shitty, the view is unbelievable. I'm not making any guarantees that any of this will fit.
E: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
M: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
I: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
T: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
T: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
M: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
BB: I saved one of those for you. Third page from the back.
BB: hey're going to set up some kind of scholarship in her name.
BB: hey kept coming to me for suggestions over what she might want. I guess since we go back so far, maybe they think I'm
BB: t's a nice thing, a scholarship. Good way to remember somebody.
BB: You still haven't been out there, have
CEMETERY PATH: Max's eyes are on the cemetery. BB follows his gaze. Two marble angels on the hill. One smaller than the other.
M: ( gently pushing ) It's a nice spot. I'll go up there with you after, if you want.
B: ( gently pushing ) It's a nice spot. I'll go up there with you after, if you want.
M: ( gently pushing ) It's a nice spot. I'll go up there with you after, if you want.
BB: ( gently pushing ) It's a nice spot. I'll go up there with you after, if you want.
B: suddenly anxious ) Go ahead up and say something to Christa. I'll find us some seats.
B: suddenly anxious ) Go ahead up and say something to Christa. I'll find us some seats.
AX: Christa, I'm really sorry about what
CHRISTA: Don't talk to me like some stranger.
CHRISTA: Who did this to him, Max?
MAX: We don't have a lot, yet.
N: ( 2 ) When everything happened to you, Alex completely fell apart. He ruined his life, he cared that much. So what are you going to do for him, now?
I: ( 2 ) When everything happened to you, Alex completely fell apart. He ruined his life, he cared that much. So what are you going to do for him, now?
T: ( 2 ) When everything happened to you, Alex completely fell apart. He ruined his life, he cared that much. So what are you going to do for him, now?
CHRISTA: ( seething ) When everything happened to you, Alex completely fell apart. He ruined his life, he cared that much. So what are you going to do for him, now?
M: ax could melt under those eyes, but Christa turns her back and continues up the path to Alex's waiting coffin.
BRAVURA: Detective Payne?
BRAVURA: .A. I need you to come with me.
MAX: The honor guard stands in formation by the flag-draped casket. The PRIEST waits, his bible ripping in the wind.
BRAVURA: The honor guard stands in formation by the flag-draped casket. The PRIEST waits, his bible ripping in the wind.
GRAVESIDE: The honor guard stands in formation by the flag-draped casket. The PRIEST waits, his bible ripping in the wind.
CHRISTA: ( sad, to the priest )
I: Bravura slides a folder over to Max - photographs of the alley, Natasha's covered body. Bravura watches his reaction.
H: Bravura slides a folder over to Max - photographs of the alley, Natasha's covered body. Bravura watches his reaction.
BRAVURA: ow'd the girl have your wallet?
MAX: She stole it.
BRAVURA: Like.picked your pocket?
BRAVURA: So you didn't know she was a prostitute?
MAX: No, I didn't. We met through a friend.
BRAVURA: Trevor Duncan. He's your friend?
MAX: I guess.
BRAVURA: That's classy. You know what Trevor does for a living, I assume?
MAX: He used to snitch for me.
BRAVURA: ell me, Max, what's a glorified file clerk still need a snitch for?
T: ell me, Max, what's a glorified file clerk still need a snitch for?
BRAVURA: see. So you'd piss in a cup for us, I think you just said the magic words. Call once you hear from the union lawyer.
BB: ( standing ) I think you just said the magic words. Call once you hear from the union lawyer.
L: ( 2 ) ou and Detective Hillman haven't worked together since your reassignment. What made you get back in touch?
B: ( 2 ) ou and Detective Hillman haven't worked together since your reassignment. What made you get back in touch?
Y: ( 2 ) ou and Detective Hillman haven't worked together since your reassignment. What made you get back in touch?
BRAVURA: ou and Detective Hillman haven't worked together since your reassignment. What made you get back in touch?
MAX: He wanted me to help him with something.
BRAVURA: ( making a note )
MAX: That's what I'm going to do.
BRAVURA: ook at this from my perspective: I've got two bodies in ten body bags. You
M: were the last person to see either one.
AX: ( pointing to the photos ) And some of that blood is mine. Good luck with your case.
BB: Nice work, detective.
BRAVURA: You've been around long enough to know I'm his only way out.
ELEVATOR: Still fuming from the encounter with Bravura, Max watches the numbers over the door fall. BB stands beside him, anxious. A car load of PEOPLE surround them, pressed tightly together.
M: Well, I hope that felt good.
M: Well, I hope that felt good.
A: Well, I hope that felt good.
BB: Well, I hope that felt good.
FLOOR, NARCOTICS..': It makes you look guilty. You understand that, right? Now it's not just Alex's unit that thinks you're the guy.
BB: It makes you look guilty. You understand that, right? Now it's not just Alex's unit that thinks you're the guy.
H: ALLWAY - CONTINUOUS BB steps out with the other passengers, still talking to Max.
BB: You need friends on the force right now. There's only so much I can do outside.
BB: Where are you going?
HOMICIDE OFFICE: Max steps into the room.
F: DETECTIVE #1 ( shouting )
M: DETECTIVE #1 ( shouting )
B: DETECTIVE #1 ( shouting )
DETECTIVE #1: ( shouting )
DETECTIVE #2: God damn it, that means you need a
M: ax gives the knob a final twist, and the door swings open.
MAX: ( to himself ) There wasn't ever a key.
ALEX'S OFFICE: The doorknob RATTLES, no method this time. SHOUTS and BANGS ring through the door. Ignoring it, Max surveys the room.
M: Out in the hall, the crowd of detectives seems to grow larger, the POUNDING on the door becoming more severe.
A: Out in the hall, the crowd of detectives seems to grow larger, the POUNDING on the door becoming more severe.
T: he SLAMMING sounds outside push Max deeper into the desk, frantically spilling the contents onto the floor.
HOMICIDE OFFICE: Two detectives throw their shoulders into the door. The rest crowd around them, foaming at the mouth to get inside to Max.
ALEX'S OFFICE: Photos and documents are scattered across the floor, over Alex's desk, mixed in with the fragments of the broken desk.
W: Max turns back to the sidewalk ahead, jaw clenching.
T: Max turns back to the sidewalk ahead, jaw clenching.
ALLEY: Abruptly, Max's ducks into the mouth of alley. Back pressed to the cold brick, he draws his pistol and CHAMBERS a round. Unseen by Max, something moves in the shadows behind him.
O: ut on the street, the Man's SCREAMS mix with the howling wind. The Figure steps into the street, towards the alley.
MAX: Lose your dog?
MONA: We need to talk about my sister.
MAX: hoever killed your sister did the same thing to my partner It was the same person.
MONA: Yeah. You.
M: slurred ) So stupid.
MAX: slurred ) So stupid.
MONA: You left your wallet lying beside her body. Who's stupid?
M: ax slumps to the side, spitting out a stream of blood.
MAX: Does that sound like something a Homicide cop would get wrong?
MAX: You know somebody named Owen?
MONA: Owen Green?
MAX: Natasha called him on her way out of my apartment. Give me one day to
ONA: No. Now.
MAX: Who is this guy?
MONA: Somebody my sister used to hang around with. Nice kid.
MAX: I have things I need to ask him, myself.
MONA: ( calling through the door ) Owen, open up.
MONA: A muted SCREAM filters through the door, cutting her short. Max DRIVES his boot into the door, splintering the jam.
MAX: ( calling out )
LIVING ROOM: .through the door, weapons drawn. Both stop short:
M: ax lowers his pistol - ready for anything, not for this.
OWEN: ( breathless, to no one ) Help me.
MONA: He doesn't seem to hear - sweat streams down his terrified face, snowflakes frosting the perspiration on his chest. Owen's eyes are instead drawn through the open windows.
MAX: Owen, wait.
H: is attention is torn from their reflections on top of the glass by the spectres looming beyond it outside. Their claws reach in, raking his body, pulling him closer.
OWEN: ( screaming ) Make them stop, tell them I can't fly.
B: Mona races up to join Max in the window. For a stunned beat they look down at the shattered body of Owen Green - his unblinking eyes frozen on the heavens, collecting snowflakes.
MONA: ( shaken ) What did we just see?
I: NT. TATTOO PARLOR - NIGHT Max drops a Polaroid of Owen's tattoo onto a glass counter.
MAX: You're sure this is the place?
MONA: Natasha had all her work done here.
ARTIST: Something I can help you with?
MAX: What if I wanted this tattoo?
TATTOO ARTIST: Then you're probably in the Marine Corps.
MAX: ( pointing to the wings ) This one.
MONA: What is it?
TATTOO ARTIST: ( intimidated ) It's a Norse superstition. The Vikings used to wear them for protection.
MONA: Trust me, my sister had all the guardian angels she needed.
TATTOO ARTIST: Not angels. Valkyries.
T: he Artist goes to a shelf bulging with old books - his reference library. He searches through dusty volumes.
TATTOO ARTIST: In Norse mythology, the only way you get to go to heaven is to die in violence. Die in your sleep, you go to hell. Valkyries fly over the battlefields, picking out the righteous dead. They reward the people who draw first blood. A soldier's angel.
TATTOO ARTIST: I'm generally thrilled to have referral business, but I tell people looking for those wings to find ink closer to home.
MONA: Where's home?
TATTOO ARTIST: Some club down in Alphabet City.
MAX: Protection from what?
I: ( 2 )
T: he pipes stop glowing, blackness replacing the blue lights.
A: ( gurgling, to Max ) They see you.they see you.
PPRENTICE: ( gurgling, to Max ) They see you.they see you.
MONA: Do you know this guy?
MONA: ( without conviction ) Maybe it isn't anything new. People get strung out, act crazy.
MAX: You think they were both on something?
M: Crystal meth, maybe, some amphetamine that raises your body temperature in an overdose. Explains why they were both sweating like that, trying to cool off. Of course, a junky won't usually jump out the window if there's someone left in the room to beg or rob.
MONA: Crystal meth, maybe, some amphetamine that raises your body temperature in an overdose. Explains why they were both sweating like that, trying to cool off. Of course, a junky won't usually jump out the window if there's someone left in the room to beg or rob.
MAX: You were standing right beside me.
MONA: Jumped is not the word I'd use.
MAX: Jumped is not the word I'd use.
T: he streets are more crowded there, people shuffling towards that sign and the sounds of DARK MUSIC filtering from inside.
MONA: They all look.
MAX: Like Owen.
MAX: This isn't anything I've seen before.
M: Ragna Rok recedes in the mirror, the block between it and the car studded with more smoldering cars and dead-eye faces, their numbers seeming to grow even as Mona watches.
T: here's some flicker of movement on the rooftop.
U: EXT. RAGNA ROK - ROOFTOP - DUSK Perched at the edge of the roof, a figure CHANTS along.
T: Max leans closer. It's the corner of a piece of paper, protruding from a razor-thin cut in the spine of the sketchbook, invisible under all but the closest inspection.
F: or a moment, Max is caught between his desire to protect the memento and to see what's hidden inside. A deep breath.
MAX: ( nauseous, to himself )
BACK BOOTH: BB fights his way to a corner booth, where Max is slumped over a beer and a shot. A matching set wait for BB across the table. BB pulls off his coat and sits, forced casual.
BB: It was sitting at this very table that your father told me I needed to retire. For about a minute, I just sat here thinking about knocking him out of his chair. The job was everything to me, to the point that I couldn't see the writing on the wall - what it was doing to my marriage, my health. Your old man knew if I was going to listen to reason, it
BB: There's nothing you can't say in here. It's like hallowed ground.
MAX: I watched a guy throw himself out of a window tonight. The things he was saying-
BB: Any guy who throws himself out a window, I wouldn't pay any attention to the things he said.
MAX: The problem is, I knew what he was talking about.
MAX: I haven't been really afraid of anything since.that night.
BB: And you are now?
MAX: There's something going on, and I can't find a rational explanation for it.
B: MAX( CONT'D )
M: MAX( CONT'D )
B: MAX( CONT'D )
BB: Okay, calm down.
MAX: It's real. I'm not crazy.
BB: Then stop acting like it. Max, you're breaking into offices, I.A. is all over you, you won't even show up for work.
MAX: The night Alex died, there was something else in the room with us. I saw it.
B: B goes a bit pale, smile fading as Max's words continue.
B: It's really important that you be careful how you talk to people about this, okay? You're already under suspicion
MAX: It's the same thing these people are seeing right before they die. I think Michelle saw it, too.
BB: For God's sake, don't drag her into this.
BB: What's really going on here?
MAX: Alex found something out about what happened to her. Something new.
B: There's no way. He would have told us.
MAX: He was trying, right before he died.
BB: Listen, okay? Why don't you come back with me, let Beth make up the guest room for you. Just for tonight.
BB: You need to take some time. Get some sleep, heal up. See if it still feels real after that.
MAX: It's real.
H: elpless, BB can only bury his hands in his pockets and watch Max fade away. After a moment, he pulls something out.
ATTENDANT: ( via intercom ) You riding?
ATTENDANT: via intercom ) If you're coming, you better come on. Way it's looking, might be the last train
A: dingy, dark bar on the first floor of an even sleazier hotel. It's nearly empty, only the dedicated DRUNKS venturing out in the storm. The front door swings open.
VINNIE: In or out, asshole.
MONA: We need to talk.
VINNIE: Shut the door, then. You Ruskies may be used to it, but I'm freezing my dick off over here.
BACK OFFICE: They've packed into a tiny back office - Russian gunmen on one side of the desk, Italians on the other. Mona and Vinnie represent their different sides, the only people seated.
VINNIE: Okay. So talk.
MONA: Something was taken from me. It involves a club in Italian territory, so I need your blessing to go make it right.
V: You're asking my permission? Well in that case, sweetheart.
INNIE: You're asking my permission? Well in that case, sweetheart.
M: Mona looks Vinnie over, bored to death by the whole thing.
V: Mona looks Vinnie over, bored to death by the whole thing.
MONA: I said `blessing.'
VINNIE: Oh. Well, blessing might cost extra. Which club are we talking about?
MONA: Ragna Rok.
VINNIE: Yeah, I know. Sure, fine. You have my permission.blessing, whatever.
MONA: You do still control that block, right? It's south of
VINNIE: The guy's name is Jack Lupino.
MONA: Well, that sounds Italian to me.
VINNIE: He's no kind of Italian I've ever seen. Tattooed freak, a real sicko from what we You're afraid of tattoos, now?
ONA: ( sneering ) You're afraid of tattoos, now?
VINNIE: When the club first opened, I sent somebody down to collect the.you know, fire insurance. A day goes by, and I don't see him. Then I get two boxes delivered to me. One box's got my guy's hands and ears in it. The other box has a quarter of a million dollars in cash.
E: ( 2 ) This neighborhood has been your family's forever. Two-fifty large is all it takes What got my attention, Mona, was that the boxes were delivered by a cop car. A guy in uniform hands them to me in broad I'm not scared of tattoos, or freaks, or mouthy Russian bitches. But whoever's watching over Lupino, whoever it is you really need to bless you walking inside Ragna Rok.him, I am scared of.
M: ( 2 ) This neighborhood has been your family's forever. Two-fifty large is all it takes What got my attention, Mona, was that the boxes were delivered by a cop car. A guy in uniform hands them to me in broad I'm not scared of tattoos, or freaks, or mouthy Russian bitches. But whoever's watching over Lupino, whoever it is you really need to bless you walking inside Ragna Rok.him, I am scared of.
MONA: This neighborhood has been your family's forever. Two-fifty large is all it takes What got my attention, Mona, was that the boxes were delivered by a cop car. A guy in uniform hands them to me in broad I'm not scared of tattoos, or freaks, or mouthy Russian bitches. But whoever's watching over Lupino, whoever it is you really need to bless you walking inside Ragna Rok.him, I am scared of.
VINNIE: What got my attention, Mona, was that the boxes were delivered by a cop car. A guy in uniform hands them to me in broad I'm not scared of tattoos, or freaks, or mouthy Russian bitches. But whoever's watching over Lupino, whoever it is you really need to bless you walking inside Ragna Rok.him, I am scared of.
T: HE HOUSE One house on the block stands out: there's no neatly shoveled driveway, no colorful Christmas lights flashing from the eaves. A black void behind every window, no life inside.
HE HOUSE: One house on the block stands out: there's no neatly shoveled driveway, no colorful Christmas lights flashing from the eaves. A black void behind every window, no life inside.
G: BB ( V.O. ) oth of the men had records, mostly
M: BB ( V.O. ) oth of the men had records, mostly
B: BB ( V.O. ) oth of the men had records, mostly
B: BB ( V.O. ) oth of the men had records, mostly
M: regular home-cooked meals. Shave and a haircut. Nice suit.
KITCHEN: Tie loosened, Max gets a beer from the fridge. Unwinding, he takes a long sip and begins sorting through the mail.
STAIRWAY: Max charges upstairs. MEN'S VOICES echo down from above.
MAX: ( calling out )
MAX: ( calling out )
MAX: shouting to the door ) Michelle, I'm right here.
M: other keeps rushing, swinging a long knife at Max's neck.
JUNKIE: It's okay. They're angels, now.
MAX: ( calling, frantic )
B: BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS The momentum sends Max tumbling inside.
C: BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS The momentum sends Max tumbling inside.
T: BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS The momentum sends Max tumbling inside.
M: BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS The momentum sends Max tumbling inside.
M: ichelle huddles on the bed, baby wrapped tight in her arms. Max rushes over to her, reaching out to touch her shoulder.
MAX: Her mouth is wide open, eyes unfocused. Muscles slack.
B: I called in a favor before I retired, had him transferred to Cold Case while he dealt with the shock of it. I thought it we were patient, gave him time, Max would come back to his old self again.
B: Look, I called you because I thought I recognized something in you. I thought if we could talk off the record
BRAVURA: I'm listening.
BB: ( emotional ) This isn't just some job stress freak- out. This is a man who lost everything, and who deserves a little understanding from the rest of us. If you'd known him ( beat, pained ) You'd want to believe him, too.
BRAVURA: Believe him about what?
BRAVURA: Are you saying you think Max did have something to do with Alex's murder?
BB: Absolutely not. Alex was his partner, they were like brothers.he couldn't have. There's no way.
BRAVURA: Then what are we talking about?
BB: Look, Max is like a son to me. Don't put me in a position to have to hang him. But you should hear the kinds of things he's saying.hallucinations, none of it makes any sense to me. I'm worried he's going to get into another situation before I can convince him to come in.
B: Are you telling me he was
RAVURA: Are you telling me he was
T: ( 2 ) I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt.
B: ( 2 ) I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt.
B: ( 2 ) I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt.
B: ( 2 ) I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt.
BB: I'm telling you to find him tonight, before somebody else gets hurt.
BB: Is there anything we can do to help you bring him in? Unofficially, of course.
BRAVURA: Bringing him in won't be a problem. Where I need your help will be his
B: Why do you say that?
RAVURA: A New Jersey unit ID'd him near his old house. It shouldn't be long.
BB: You have to find him first, protect him. Some of the guys from Alex's unit beat you to him, they won't wait for a trial.
I: NT. STORAGE SPACE The garage door raises, cold metal RATTLING as it rolls up.
T: Max steps inside, pulling a box marked `GARAGE' out into the light. Opening it, he roots around and finds a flashlight. Switched on, a golden beam cuts through the blue shadows.
W: Max steps inside, pulling a box marked `GARAGE' out into the light. Opening it, he roots around and finds a flashlight. Switched on, a golden beam cuts through the blue shadows.
M: neatly labeled with feminine script.
MAX: ( to himself ) Okay, Chelle. Help me, here.
PROJECT VALHALLA.': EXT. STORAGE SPACE - NIGHT Max steps out of the storage locker. He tucks the manila folder inside his coat and pulls the metal door closed.
T: EXT. STORAGE SPACE - NIGHT Max steps out of the storage locker. He tucks the manila folder inside his coat and pulls the metal door closed.
V: EXT. STORAGE SPACE - NIGHT Max steps out of the storage locker. He tucks the manila folder inside his coat and pulls the metal door closed.
M: with panic. He assumes an awkward, textbook firing position.
AX: ( turning slowly ) Relax, I'm a cop.
YOUNG COP: Don't move! I know who you are.
MAX: Just relax. I need you to trust me for a Yeah? Is that what you said to your You don't understand.
YOUNG COP: Yeah? Is that what you said to your You don't understand.
MAX: You don't understand.
YOUNG COP: ( gesturing with the gun ) Lay down on your face.
T: ( bending down ) Okay, just take it easy.
MAX: ( bending down ) Okay, just take it easy.
YOUNG COP: Word's gotten around about the sick shit you did to him, too. If I were you, I'd get ready for sort of a long ride back into the city.
T: knee into his chest and wrenching the pistol away.
F: ootsteps ECHOING, he reaches the desk and waits for a beat.
O: We have a problem.
M: We have a problem.
N: We have a problem.
COLVIN: We have a problem.
MAX: ( to himself )
S: tartled voices MURMUR. Windows that had been black glow to life as the passengers' eyes adjust to the dark car.
C: An obese CONDUCTOR ( 40s ) steps inside. Immediately, all of the other passengers begin to QUESTION HIM at once.
CONDUCTOR: ( shouting over ) Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. The storm's caused a power failure, but it's absolutely nothing to worry about. We'll be up and running again before
M: ax splits his attention between the other passengers and the window, watching for more movement outside.
MAX: ( recognizing ) Get out of the train.
MAX: ( shouting ) Get out
F: Moving comfortably through the shadows, Mona follows the general movement towards a BASSY QUAKE farther up the block.
W: Moving comfortably through the shadows, Mona follows the general movement towards a BASSY QUAKE farther up the block.
M: Moving comfortably through the shadows, Mona follows the general movement towards a BASSY QUAKE farther up the block.
I: NT. RAGNA ROK - NIGHT Inside, that music is EARSPLITTING - a jet engine at 200 beats per minute. Lights strobe past red gels, frozen glimpses of thin limbs and black pupils on the dance floor.
HALLWAY: BB shuffles down the hall, shivering in his boxers. He pauses at the thermostat, frowning to find the heat cut off.
B: B turns, startling as Max steps out of the shadows - steps stiff with pain, clothes dripping icy water across the floor.
BB: ( terrified ) Max? What are you doing?
M: `25 CIVILIANS KILLED IN AL-HASAMAH MASSACRE'
I: `25 CIVILIANS KILLED IN AL-HASAMAH MASSACRE'
B: `25 CIVILIANS KILLED IN AL-HASAMAH MASSACRE'
M: `25 CIVILIANS KILLED IN AL-HASAMAH MASSACRE'
BB: Those grunts who went crazy in Iraq?
AX: Go a little further, read what they did to the bodies. It's the same as what happened to Alex and that girl.
B: Where did you get this?
MAX: BB looks up, startled, as Max pages through Michelle's notes.
MAX: It's all in her notes: people describing fevers, hallucinations.their lymph nodes swell until their necks bruise like something's been choking them. The angels they all talk about? Michelle talks about eye spasms that make things seem to flutter. Mixed with the other delusions, that starts looking like She wasn't seeing them. She was trying to figure out why other people were.
B: thought she was working on allergy Somebody at Aesir knows what
B: thought she was working on allergy Somebody at Aesir knows what
AX: Somebody at Aesir knows what
BB: ( thunderstruck ) Oh, my God.
BB: It's me. I killed Alex.
B: ( 2 ) What are you talking about?
Y: ( 2 ) What are you talking about?
MAX: What are you talking about?
BB: He came to me about six months ago, asking about one of the executives at Aesir. At the time I had no reason to connect it to Michelle, I just thought. I tried to warn him, this guy has connections to some scary people
MAX: Who? What's his name?
BB: Jason Colvin. He used to be the head of the pharmaceutical division, but he's moved up over the last few years. I guess Michelle probably reported directly to him.
BB: ou've got copies of this stuff, right?
BB: e careful, Max.
D: ETECTIVES wander between yellow tarps in the train, sipping coffee. Out on the tracks, Bravura works alone.
HOMICIDE COP: Looks like ten bodies, give or take. Even in New York, that ought to be enough to earn Payne the spike.
Y: The blast point is outside the train.
B: The blast point is outside the train.
BRAVURA: The blast point is outside the train.
BRAVURA: ased on the spread of the wreckage. they moving very fast, either.
HOMICIDE COP: He forced them to stop, first.
BRAVURA: So he had the bomb with him inside, but he decided to walk outside to detonate Are you asking if that seems like odd behavior from a guy who cut his partner's head off?
HOMICIDE COP: Are you asking if that seems like odd behavior from a guy who cut his partner's head off?
OUNG COP: You wanted to see me?
HOMICIDE COP: Careful what you say to him, if you ever want to make detective.
YOUNG COP: ( to Bravura, guarded ) I already filled out a report.
BRAVURA: Show me where it happened, then.
E: XT. STORAGE FACILITY - MORNING Bravura and the Young Cop stand on the spot where he fought Max the night before - disturbed snow, the frayed cord.
YOUNG COP: He jumped out and wrapped that cord around me, and before I had a chance.
I: Bravura nods at the bullshit, focus drawn to Max's locker.
A: Bravura nods at the bullshit, focus drawn to Max's locker.
BRAVURA: ( pointing ) He was coming out of here?
HOMICIDE COP: Hey, real cops are working here.
BRAVURA: ( to a CSI tech ) Where's the stuff you guys moved?
CSI TECH: Nothing's been moved.
HOMICIDE COP: What, you playing detective now?
B: ( studying the photo ) This is his wife?
RAVURA: ( studying the photo ) This is his wife?
BRAVURA: spent four hours up at Homicide going through Alex's desk and cataloging pictures of this woman, and not one of you bastards bothered to mention that she was Max Payne's wife?
HOMICIDE COP: ( shrugging ) If Alex was getting a little something on the side
BRAVURA: Who are you protecting?
HOMICIDE COP: Nobody, we just.why would anybody talk to IA without a reason?
BRAVURA: ( livid ) You've got a reason, now. Tell me everything you know about this woman, starting with her name.
R: Jason Colvin steps out of a cab and marches up the steps.
ECEPTION AREA: Stepping off of the elevator, Colvin passes a RECEPTIONIST.
COLVIN: You should go on home, already. There's nothing going on today.
RECEPTIONIST: Well, there's someone in your office.
COLVIN'S OFFICE: Colvin steps through the doorway and stops short.
MAX: ( pointing to a photo ) This your daughter?
M: Yes, it is. Three years old.
N: Yes, it is. Three years old.
M: Yes, it is. Three years old.
COLVIN: Yes, it is. Three years old.
COLVIN: Is there something I can help you with, You can tell me about Project Valhalla.
AX: You can tell me about Project Valhalla.
COLVIN: ( nervous laugh ) I think you might have the wrong.
MAX: eed to make a call?
COLVIN: Maybe I'd better.
COLVIN: Yes, there's a detective here. What did you say your name was?
M: Abruptly, Max RIPS the phone cord out of the wall.
AX: Abruptly, Max RIPS the phone cord out of the wall.
AX: ( low ) She was my wife.
COLVIN: ( stunned ) Excuse me?
MAX: Michelle Payne was my wife.
COLVIN: Before you say anything else, I want you to know who I am.
MAX: Before you say anything else, I want you to know who I am.
COLVIN: Please, wait.
BRAVURA: ( flashing his badge ) I need to talk to somebody about a woman who used to work here.
COLVIN'S OFFICE: Colvin's eyes flutter open. His nose is smashed flat.
COLVIN: ( weakly, eyeing the lamp ) Please don't hit me again.
M: A week ago, I thought the universe had turned against me. Everything I loved was gone, and for some reason I'd been left here to suffer alone.
AX: A week ago, I thought the universe had turned against me. Everything I loved was gone, and for some reason I'd been left here to suffer alone.
T: ut it wasn't the universe that took my family away from me.
B: ut it wasn't the universe that took my family away from me.
MAX: ut it wasn't the universe that took my family away from me.
MAX: It was you.
MAX: Tell me about Valhalla.
COLVIN: There is no
MAX: Tell me.
COLVIN: There's no Project Valhalla anymore. I shut it down years ago.
COLVIN: ( reluctant ) It was a disaster. The drug was so addictive, the damage it did to the mind was so devastating that we lost our government funding. By the end, we couldn't even guarantee the safety of our scientists administering the experiment. Test subjects would follow them home and kill them for an extra dose.
M: Is that what happened to Michelle?
AX: Is that what happened to Michelle?
COLVIN: Nobody knows what happened to her.
C: ( 2 )
C: ( 2 )
OLVIN: terrified ) People thought Michelle might be a whistle-blower. That she wasn't loyal enough to Aesir, and she might go public about the program.
LOBBY: Bravura sits in the lobby, impatiently skimming a magazine. On the far side of the enormous room, movement draws his eye:
GUARD: Authorized personnel only.
BRAVURA: Don't look at him. Move aside.
I: 'm authorized.
OLVIN'S OFFICE: Max lets the wires fall away. Solemnly, he draws his pistol.
COLVIN: Why are you asking me about this?
MAX: I already told you. Be quiet, now.
COLVIN: But why today? It's over, I got rid of everything before they moved me out of the division
F: Then you haven't been Downtown lately, because you missed a spot.
MAX: Then you haven't been Downtown lately, because you missed a spot.
COLVIN: Are you telling me that there are people out there taking the drug again? How many of them?
COLVIN: I knew it, I knew something was going on. I told her the numbers were too good
COLVIN: They're not coming for you.
MAX: What are you talking about?
C: You only know my name because somebody high up decided to cut me loose. There's a safe in the wall. It's open.
OLVIN: You only know my name because somebody high up decided to cut me loose. There's a safe in the wall. It's open.
COLVIN: Show that to whoever will watch. If this thing spreads, nothing will keep the rest of you safe.
COLVIN: ( terrified ) Wait, I'm not ready.
HALLWAY: OFFICE WORKERS draw back and GASP as Colvin's bloody face appears. Max is close behind, holding the belt around Colvin's neck, pressing his pistol to the back of his head.
MAX: Back up, all of you. Make a path.
MAX: calling to the guards ) Stay back, or I'll
T: he crowd goes crazy, SCREAMING and trampling each other. More SHOTS ring out, ripping through Colvin as Max lets his lifeless body fall and hides his retreat in the scramble.
STAIRWELL: Exhausted, Bravura plods up steps to a landing. Suddenly, AUTOMATIC WEAPONS erupt nearby. He fumbles for a cell phone.
BRAVURA: This is Jim Bravura, IA. You need to tell the units responding to the Aesir call to come equipped for automatic The Aesir building, nobody's called anything in yet? Hell yes, I'd like to report something. We've got machine gun fire in Midtown.
M: Bravura snaps his phone shut, trying to regulate his breath. Drawing a tiny service revolver he creeps to the door.
HALLWAY: Max stumbles up the hall. He chances a look back at the black-clad GUARDS crashing through office workers.
M: ax gets a few careful SHOTS off from his new elevation, dropping Guards who've lost sight of him as he jumps from desk to desk, working deeper into the maze of cubicles.
ANOTHER HALL: .and around the corner.
BRAVURA: ( shouting ) Put your hands up!
BRAVURA: ( more human ) You need to come in now, before anything else gets pinned on you.
MAX: She was trying to stop it.
BRAVURA: Stop what? Tell me what's happening
S: Bullets STRAFE the wall just above Max's head. He dives to the ground, plaster dust and smoke pluming above him.
A: Bullets STRAFE the wall just above Max's head. He dives to the ground, plaster dust and smoke pluming above him.
G: Bullets STRAFE the wall just above Max's head. He dives to the ground, plaster dust and smoke pluming above him.
W: hile Max scrambles for cover, Bravura charges forward, waving his badge in the air above him.
BRAVURA: NYPD! Hold your fire!
BRAVURA: ( screaming ) Hold your fire!
M: ( pointing to the TV ) You need to see this.
AX: ( pointing to the TV ) You need to see this.
S: ANNOUNCER ( V.O. )
S: ANNOUNCER ( V.O. )
O: ANNOUNCER ( V.O. )
A: ANNOUNCER ( V.O. )
O: ANNOUNCER ( V.O. )
MONA: That's the guy.
MAX: What are you talking about?
MONA: He's the one behind Ragna Rok. It's his club where the drug's being sold.
S: ( 2 ) LUPINO( CONT'D ) Like you're aware of the power you have in your own hands to make the world a better place.
M: ( 2 ) LUPINO( CONT'D ) Like you're aware of the power you have in your own hands to make the world a better place.
ONA: So what do we do now?
MONA: What are you doing? Uncuff me.
MAX: He killed my wife.
MONA: I've been inside that club. You don't have a chance on your own. But you don't care.
MONA: You don't want my help, because you think if he puts you out of your misery, you'll get to see her again.
E: ( 3 )
B: ( 3 )
I: ( 3 )
I: ( 3 )
E: ( 3 )
MONA: I hope that's really the way it works.
ACK ROOM: A room like the inside of a smoker's lung - walls painted black, haze from candles and whatever else blurring the air. Jack Lupino sits on the floor surrounded by candles, watching the flames with manic focus. Two GUARDS stand above him.
I: nto a bent spoon, Lupino taps greenish powder from a small glass vial. He uses the candle to heat the spoon. Checking his watch, one of the guards produces a cell phone and dials.
GUARD #1: ( on phone ) All quiet, 4 a.m.
GUARD: ( chattering, to himself ) Screw this.
L: He pulls the door shut. It won't. Something's blocking it. The guard stands up, opens it wider to build some momentum.
M: He pulls the door shut. It won't. Something's blocking it. The guard stands up, opens it wider to build some momentum.
L: He pulls the door shut. It won't. Something's blocking it. The guard stands up, opens it wider to build some momentum.
BACK ROOM: Lupino shoots up, gritted teeth tugging his belt tourniquet tight. Eyes clinched, beads of sweat already forming.
GUARD #1: ait here, Mr. Lupino.
W: ait here, Mr. Lupino.
UPINO: I don't need protection. I have my own.
BALLROOM: Max walks into the ballroom, motionless Guard bleeding out on the dance floor before him. Gunsmoke hangs in the air.
BACK ROOM: Lupino and the Guards listen to the SHOOTING grow closer. Suddenly, the metal door flies open, BANGING at the stop. With lightning reflexes, THE GUARDS BLAST down the hallway.
M: ax melts out of the smoke, weapon raised. Hunting.
I: The back room is deeper than the poor light gives away. Max's boots grind over burned-out candles, occult runes.
C: The back room is deeper than the poor light gives away. Max's boots grind over burned-out candles, occult runes.
L: The back room is deeper than the poor light gives away. Max's boots grind over burned-out candles, occult runes.
U: The back room is deeper than the poor light gives away. Max's boots grind over burned-out candles, occult runes.
L: The back room is deeper than the poor light gives away. Max's boots grind over burned-out candles, occult runes.
LUPINO: an you hear them, now?
E: XT. RAGNA ROK - NIGHT Outside, no voice could carry on that raging WIND. TWO FIGURES walk up the street, closing slowly on Ragna Rok.
LUPINO: We'll see which one us they're flying for. We'll see who they love best.
S: In that instant, Max pulls the knife from his own shoulder and buries it to the hilt in Lupino's stomach.
B: In that instant, Max pulls the knife from his own shoulder and buries it to the hilt in Lupino's stomach.
Y: In that instant, Max pulls the knife from his own shoulder and buries it to the hilt in Lupino's stomach.
MAX: Who is your contact at Aesir?
MAX: louder ) Who sent you after Michelle?
L: ( with difficulty ) You are so blessed.
UPINO: ( with difficulty ) You are so blessed.
MAX: ou don't know what I'm talking about, do
LUPINO: The angels are not done with you yet.
MAX: ( in shock )
BB?: Max is hauled to his feet - bleeding, cuffed, and trapped.
B: ( 2 )
B: ( 2 )
G: ( 2 )
A: ( 2 )
M: ( 2 )
AX: What's going on here, BB?
B: t ease, soldier.
B: t ease, soldier.
MAX: JOE SALLE ( draws pistol, re. Max )
JOE SALLE: ( draws pistol, re. Max ) Not unless you feel like carrying him out of here. Max knows me, and I definitely don't know Mr. Lupino.
BB: Not unless you feel like carrying him out of here. Max knows me, and I definitely don't know Mr. Lupino.
MAX: shouting ) Look at me, BB. At least face what you're doing.
BB: row up.
B: Happy New Year.
B: I hope you're not over there blaming me. Really, this is Michelle's fault.
B: I hope you're not over there blaming me. Really, this is Michelle's fault.
BB: She had no right to put me in that situation. Asking me to pass up this kind of an opportunity to help her rat out my bosses.I'm sorry, but that's
BB: But then again, who could blame her for getting confused, being married to such a righteous man. So maybe it is your fault, after all. Just like your old man. Always knew you were better than everyone else
MAX: No. Just better than you.
BB: For what it's worth, he didn't know Michelle was going to die.
BB: He thought they were going out there to scare her, destroy her research.
M: FLASHBACK: MAX'S KITCHEN - DUSK Looking up from the mail, Max sees the smashed kitchen door.
F: FLASHBACK: MAX'S KITCHEN - DUSK Looking up from the mail, Max sees the smashed kitchen door.
T: FLASHBACK: MAX'S KITCHEN - DUSK Looking up from the mail, Max sees the smashed kitchen door.
F: FLASHBACK: MAX'S KITCHEN - DUSK Looking up from the mail, Max sees the smashed kitchen door.
R: ESUME - EXT. STREET - NIGHT Max keeps walking, trying to fight off the memories. BB strolls along beside him, taking his time with the story.
BB: I'd arranged with the other guys to finish the job.
BB: ( smiling ) And as thanks, you nearly blew his head off while he crawled out the window.
B: B watches eagerly, waiting for what comes next.
S: FLASHBACK: MAX'S BEDROOM - DUSK Max charges in, again firing on the man escaping.
M: FLASHBACK: MAX'S BEDROOM - DUSK Max charges in, again firing on the man escaping.
BB: You really didn't know?
AX: ( soft ) You should have killed me then, when you had a chance.
BB: I learned something from your father, years ago. Always give people a choice.
BB: He gave me the choice between early retirement or facing the charges he was going to bring against me. He sat me down in that bar and explained that I could either give up the thing I loved, or I could have it taken away by force. That ( was my choice.
I: BB( CONT'D )
BB: Just out of curiosity, though: why don't I have a chance now?
MAX: Because now I know it's you.
BB: Well, you're
JOE SALLE: Okay, enough. This is far enough.
B: Hang on.
B: Hang on.
JOE SALLE: BB stands and walks onto the lot, kicking away snow until he exhumes a cinder block in the rubble pile. BB picks it up.
BB: 've got something better.
I: EXT. PIER - NIGHT An ancient shipping pier juts out into the river, murky water high and roiling around its pilings from the stormy weather.
H: EXT. PIER - NIGHT An ancient shipping pier juts out into the river, murky water high and roiling around its pilings from the stormy weather.
L: EXT. PIER - NIGHT An ancient shipping pier juts out into the river, murky water high and roiling around its pilings from the stormy weather.
B: B motions for Max and Joe Salle to follow him out onto the pier, its planks buried under a thick sheet of ice.
BB: ( to Salle, taking Max ) Grab me some of that rope.
BB: It's not like we didn't see it coming.
BB: Sullen, withdrawn.Max just never seemed the same after the tragedy.
BB: It's a good thing his father didn't live to see it, though. Bill Payne's only son, a strung-out suicide.
BB: smiling ) It would have eaten him alive.
MAX: Bravura's not going to buy it.
BB: Sure? Not even once the autopsy turns up traces in your blood?
BB: dosed you that night at Alex's, just to make sure things were fuzzy. Compliments of the house.
J: Seeing that BB has removed Max's cuffs, Salle hurries over. The motion puts both men off balance on the slick boards.
BB: oe, why don't you calm down.
P: BB and Salle FIRE with less conviction. In the water, the disturbance made by Max grows smaller as he's swept away.
IER: BB and Salle FIRE with less conviction. In the water, the disturbance made by Max grows smaller as he's swept away.
BB: It's fine, as cold as that water is. Just in case, though. Make sure.
JOE SALLE: Max lifts his head. The wide expanse of the river stretches around him, surface broken by swirling pocks of falling snow.
RIVER: Max lifts his head. The wide expanse of the river stretches around him, surface broken by swirling pocks of falling snow.
A: stepping quiet, past the bloody and motionless bodies.
M: Are you home?
H: Are you home?
C: Are you home?
H: Are you home?
C: Are you home?
MICHELLE: Are you home?
T: he CAPTAIN steps out onto deck, zipping his coat against the weather while talking into a two-way radio. Faintly visible around him, larger ships are outlined by twinkling lights.
APTAIN: ( into radio ) You know how blind I am, I'm not crashing into the dock again. When the power
CAPTAIN: ang on a second.
APTAIN: to himself )
CAPTAIN: oly shit. Somebody get out here!
FIRST MATE: It's too late. He's frozen solid.
C: The boat tries to ease into the dock, but is moving too fast: it CRASHES against the pilings. The gathered CROWD SHOUTS.
F: The boat tries to ease into the dock, but is moving too fast: it CRASHES against the pilings. The gathered CROWD SHOUTS.
D: The boat tries to ease into the dock, but is moving too fast: it CRASHES against the pilings. The gathered CROWD SHOUTS.
C: The boat tries to ease into the dock, but is moving too fast: it CRASHES against the pilings. The gathered CROWD SHOUTS.
CAPTAIN: ( calling to the pier ) Somebody get some blankets.
CAPTAIN: all the cops, he's bleeding everywhere.
CAPTAIN: on't move. We've got help coming.
IRST MATE: What is that? What's he.
APTAIN: Great, a junkie bleeding on my boat.
M: touching Max, confused ) He doesn't really feel that bad.
AN: touching Max, confused ) He doesn't really feel that bad.
CAPTAIN: What do you mean, he's a block of ice.
FIRST MATE: Maybe it's a fever already.
B: ( 2 ) Let him go, then.
CAPTAIN: Let him go, then.
BRAVURA: Okay. Again, from the beginning.
HALLWAY: .where a row of more GUARDS are handcuffed to a bench.
RAVURA: An investigation into departmental corruption. They're material witnesses
RANKING OFFICER: Just between you and me, I wouldn't count on these men being any kind of witnesses at all. I served with a few of them, and remember what kind of officers they were.
BRAVURA: What kind would that be?
RANKING OFFICER: Cops. Real cops.
RANKING OFFICER: o offense.
BRAVURA: None taken. Agent Taliente, I'd like you to meet a real cop.
DETECTIVE: ( on phone ) Let me talk to BB.
JOE SALLE: What's going on downtown?
BB: Bravura called in the Feds.
BB: or God's sake, come on. Max is dead, they've got nothing else.
ENTRY HALL: BB and Salle storm down the steps into the main entry hall.
B: Get up to the armory, hide the
JOE SALLE: He's not dead. He's here.
BB: Bullshit. There's no way
ELEVATOR: BB and Salle watch the floor number rise. BB finds his cell.
JOE SALLE: Who are you calling?
BB: By Salle's face, that's a thought scarier than Max.
NICOLE HORNE: ( even ) This isn't a number you use.
BB: need you to send a helicopter to my building. NThe storm's breaking.
NICOLE HORNE: here was a shoot-out in my building yesterday, twenty floors from where I'm sitting. A secretary was killed.
BB: I understand an executive named Jason Colvin was also among the dead. Senseless tragedies, all.
BB: Everything's fine, we're just
NICOLE HORNE: This was more than you were ready for.
BB: What is that supposed to mean?
NICOLE HORNE: Perhaps our partnership has run its Think pretty hard about that. I'm about to be surrounded by Federal agents
BB: Think pretty hard about that. I'm about to be surrounded by Federal agents
NICOLE HORNE: ( shadenfreude ) Good heavens, BB. Best of luck.
BB: Who needs luck? They're going to love the stories I can tell.
NICOLE HORNE: ( losing it ) Send the helicopter, then.
BB: ( losing it ) Send the helicopter, then.
NICOLE HORNE: It's on its away.
BB: Take everybody and get downstairs. I want no less than his head.
HALLWAY: Max turns the corner into a long hallway of prison-like offices. Emergency lights flicker through barred windows.
S: uddenly, an office down the hall bursts to life - a ROAR of flapping wings, light from the window strobing with movement.
ARMORY: Guards empty the weapons lockers, loading for bear as the sounds of GUNFIRE grow closer. BB and Salle supervise.
BB: Take some C4, wire it so he can't make it to the roof. I'll wait on the chopper.
BB: ( smiling ) You know I won't leave without you.
CORRIDOR: Max FIRES, plaster from shattered walls caking on his sweat- soaked skin. Guards take cover, fall back for position.
GREAT HALL: .into the vast, open space at the heart of the building. GUARDS appear at the other end of the hallway, OPENING UP. Their SHOTS echo, the great room ringing like a cave.
STAIRWELL: More Guards THUNDER up steps littered with spent casings. In their haste, they don't notice the thin gap in one window.
ANOTHER HALLWAY: A small group of Guards race forward, dodging the bodies of others Max met along the way. They hesitate, form ranks.
MAX'S HALLUCINATION: Crushed inside the DEAFENING blackness, Max lifts his eyes to see LEERING DEMONS gazing down, distorted versions of.
MAX'S HALLUCINATION: The Demons fade away, their howling SCREAMS lingering behind. Awaiting the next horror, Max is shocked by something else: White light splits open the smoke, cutting the black in two.
GREAT HALL: Mona kneels down over Max, lifting up his head. Max's skin is pale, slick like melting wax. His eyes are empty.
MONA: Gradually, Max's black eyes start to find Mona's face.
M: AX'S HALLUCINATION The white light grows brighter, blasting away shadows and smoke. In its center, traces of Mona's face appear.
AX'S HALLUCINATION: The white light grows brighter, blasting away shadows and smoke. In its center, traces of Mona's face appear.
GREAT HALL: Max starts to sit up, gazing with confusion at the hallway.
MONA: You don't have much time.
MONA: I'll do what I can to slow them down, but you have to hurry.
MONA: You're not done yet.
BB: ( on phone ) The weather's broken, your pilot is going to have no problem landing.
MONA: Where's the detonator?
JOE SALLE: There's more like this all over. Even if the building doesn't collapse, this floor is gone. Careful with that thing, is what I'm saying. I'm sure you and I can work something out.
UARDS: Drop your weapon!
BB'S OFFICE: Max staggers through the door to BB's office. Out the big windows, the East River begins to glow with approaching dawn.
HALLWAY: Salle holds out his hand for the detonator. Behind Mona, elevator doors open to reveal more Guards. They file out.
JOE SALLE: ( to the Guards ) Hurry, Max's already upstairs. ( to Mona, frustrated ) Just hand it over.
JOE SALLE: B's done for, but this thing doesn't have to stop. I'm his number two, and somebody has to take over for Lupino. Like I said, we can work something out.
JOE SALLE: frowning, confused ) Give me one reason we can't do business.
T: he window Max stands in front of SHATTERS in the EXPLOSION, his demonic image bursting into a thousand shards of glass.
BRAVURA: Try to take Payne alive, if there's anything left.
BB: It's unbelievable. All that snow, and. Watch it end up being a beautiful day.
BB: You want my confession, first? You came all this way for it.
BB: ( mock penitent ) Forgive me, Max, for I have sinned. I should have bet more on you, and less on that helicopter.
BB: Just get to it, already. That's all I ask. You've earned it, so just.
BB: But I want you to listen to me, first. Just try to hear what
MAX'S VOICE: I don't believe in heaven.
MAX'S VOICE: But I have this idea about it.
THE END: Writers : Beau Michael Thorne
