THE MECHANIC: Written by Karl Gajdusek & Lewis John Carlino
GROCER: 'Evening, Arthur. Got your weekly right here. The man hoists two bags of groceries onto the counter. Bishop comes forward, sees the Owner's DAUGHTER behind the counter. 12, precocious, reading a dog-eared kid's book.
BISHOP: Hey, Sophie. I got something for you, wanna see? The girl smiles, puts down the book and comes over. Bishop crouches in front of her. He puts out two empty hands, shows them back and front, then tickles one ear with a hand while the other "appears" a small daisy. The girl sees it, smiles... a little disappointed.
GROCER: What do you say, honey?
SOPHIE: Thank you, Bishop.
BISHOP: You're very welcome. And she's back into the book. Bishop smiles, a little sad. It was nice... but the moment's over. He stands and collects his groceries.
GROCER: See you next week, Arthur.
(FROM INSIDE): It's open! Bishop pushes the door open, steps into...
WOMAN'S VOICE: I'll just be a minute. We catch a GLIMPSE of the WOMAN. A towel over her hair, wearing a skirt and a bra, crossing from the bathroom into her bedroom. Even in the small glimpse, she's beautiful. Bishop looks down at a coffee table. Magazines, newspaper. A picture of the first Mark's elaborate funeral.
BISHOP: I'm sorry I was away so long this time. I had some complications... He turns. She's emerged from the bedroom. 30's. Long dark hair, damp from the shower. Buttoning a shirt, the curve of her breasts caught as she does. A comfortable, sophisticated air about her. Effortlessly attractive.
WOMAN: You don't have to apologize. I'm just glad you're here now.
(BEAT): Are you hungry? She starts to move by him, his hand catches her arm and she is in his arms, holding him TIGHT, kissing him.
(BEAT): Was there another woman?
BISHOP: No.
WOMAN: Liar. It's alright. I don't mind. (Suddenly shifting gears) I... I made something for you. She picks up a remote, fire up a large flatscreen TV. Hits a button. A moment, then an IMAGE flickers to life. ON THE TV: The WOMAN, sitting in this same living room. She wears a long sleeve shirt over panties. Sips a glass of wine. Smiles warm at the camera. The silence of late night.
(BEAT): Everybody spoke about you, of course. We should go up there sometime, just the two of us... ON THE TV: She reaches towards the camera and the image JUMPS AHEAD. Another night, late. The WOMAN enters the frame, now wearing a stunning black party dress.
(WHISPER): Why weren't you here to take me home and make love to me...? She blows a kiss. Closes her eyes... ON BISHOP: Watching. Emotion breaks the surface. The WOMAN raises the remote. Turns off the image. Looks at Bishop. Plain, not demanding. But caring.
BISHOP: I'm not a man who... It wouldn't be good for you, if I was around all the time.
WOMAN: I know. I know. She moves to him and they are kissing fierce.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Stay for breakfast? He turns. She's standing in the doorway, tying a robe around herself. A cool professionalism inhabits her demeanor. Not crass or mean-spirited, but the romance is gone.
BISHOP: Do I ever?
WOMAN: No. But there's a first time for everything. Bishop goes to the DVD player, slots out the DVD they watched the night before and pockets it.
BISHOP: Thank you. This was a good one. See you next time.
WOMAN: Bishop... You all right? He turns, studies her. This is new ground. He nods and leaves. She stares a moment at the door after he's gone.
MAN: (into a phone) Yes, I just got here. No, not yet. He turns, REACTS as Bishop is there, CLOSE, barely sweating.
(INTO PHONE): Hold on, I got him. The man holds his cell phone out for Bishop. A beat, Bishop studying the angles... he takes the phone.
BISHOP: ...How are you, Harry?
SECURITY: Sorry, gotta do this... Patient, Bishop puts his arms out as the man searches him.
BISHOP: I like the new digs. McKenna LAUGHS, like a grunt. Fiddles with his hearing aid, turning it up. Bishop's eyes track.
MCKENNA: Has it really been that long? Jesus.
(BEAT): You know how they say youth is lost on the young? They're right. If I had my nineteen year old body back, I wouldn't be here, I'll tell you that. I'd be out there, making it my personal life mission to bang every stewardess who ever dared put on one of those whatchamacallit skirts.
BISHOP: Times have changed, Harry. They don't wear skirts anymore. McKenna eyeballs Bishop, shakes his head. He goes to the glass wall, points out at the screens, financial markets.
MCKENNA: You know what all that is? (off Bishop's nod) That's their money, getting moved, exchanged. Made clean and neat and proper for Uncle Sam. And I have always been extremely careful.
BISHOP: And...
MCKENNA: And? And that's the point! Nothing. I tell them they have a problem here and instead of dealing with it I get silence, zippo, fuck- all. What are they, twelve?
BISHOP: ...I don't see how I can --
MCKENNA: That's bullshit, Arthur. Your father -- they still talk about the guy like he walked on water. You, they'll listen to. You --
BISHOP: I'm not a part of that. McKenna stares out the window at the street below, nervous. Shakes a pill out of as small vial, pops it. He chuckles, shakes his head.
MCKENNA: You remember that fishing trip we all took, back in the day. You were, what? About eight, right? (Off Bishop's nod) You fell out of the boat... couldn't swim a stroke. City kid. (Animated, laughing) You're in the water, splashing around.
MCKENNA (CONT'D): You got these big eyes like saucers, like you're sure you're gonna drown. Splashing... swallowing water... just STARING at your father and he's not making a move. Remember? Just looking down at you like... Suddenly it's gotten less funny.
(BEAT): Anyway, the whole time you're in the water, you didn't cry out. Not once. You were a tough sonofabitch, even then.
BISHOP: That was a long time ago, Harry. McKenna turns from the window, takes in all his monitors, charts. Stock lines tick up and down, graphs flow, pulse...
MCKENNA: Well, I'm in the water this time, Arthur. You think it's easy for me to ask? It cuts like hell. But that's what I'm doing. Bishop eyes the barely open doorway into a small room off the office. Pillows and blankets on a sofa. Some clothes strewn about. McKenna's been sleeping here. A long beat. Bishop... nods. The tension seems to DRAIN from McKenna. He claps Bishop on the back, nods back.
(TO STEVE): Steve, this is Arthur Bishop. Steve shakes Bishop's hand. Strong. Observant.
STEVE: Hey. Nice to meet you. You work for my father?
MCKENNA: No, quite the opposite. Arthur's doing me a little favor.
STEVE: So you're a criminal?
MCKENNA: That's enough.
STEVE: Relax, relax. I'm kidding. A last beat between Steve and Bishop, then Steve lets it go, turns his attention to his father.
MCKENNA: What's it for?
STEVE: I have no idea. And don't pretend you care, either. Write the check, go to the party, smile when the
ORPHANS-SLASH-HOMELESS-WIDOWS THANK: you and call you a great and generous man.
(TO BISHOP): You ever think of having kids, Arthur?
BISHOP: Nope.
MCKENNA: Wise man. How much?
STEVE: Thirty thousand. (Suddenly, to Bishop) You know, I can't tell what you're thinking, Mr. Bishop. Usually, I'm very good with that, with people. Sort of like a bullshit detector I developed. But you're very... hard to read.
BISHOP: Sorry.
STEVE: Don't be. So what are you thinking?
BISHOP: I was thinking that a son, should be more grateful to his father.
(NODDING): I agree. I agree. I often wonder why I'm not. McKenna tears the check out, hands it to Steve.
MCKENNA: There. Now go away.
STEVE: Thank you, dad. Are we going to see you at the house any time soon?
MCKENNA: Yeah, this is just a few more days. We got this... situation. Steve hears the dark in his father's tone, tracks it.
STEVE: Anything I can do?
MCKENNA: You? Yeah, you can earn some money. Get married.
(BEAT): No, it's going to be okay now. Arthur's helping me out. Steve glances between the two men. Ego slightly bruised.
STEVE: Well it's good to meet you Mr. Bishop. My father seems to trust you, which is... unusual. Bishop and McKenna watch as he hits the atrium, hands Louise the check who goes out of her mind, jumping up and down, giving him a kiss that speaks of more to come, trotting off. Steve glances back one more time, then follows her.
MCKENNA: We will take from our children for a lifetime what we would not suffer from another man for an instant. Explain that to me. (off Bishop's silence) Okay. Okay, call me when you hear something.
BISHOP: You take care of yourself, Harry.
MCKENNA: Well, that's your job now, isn't it?
ART DEALER: Arthur. Glad you're here. Right this way. As they move across the space Bishop catches sight of a MODEL, lying nude in a pool of blue paint. Across from her, The ARTIST is full-focused on her. He's roughly Bishop's age. Cigarette dangles off a lip, tattoos on his arms. Fully comfortable and committed to the alternative life. The model senses Bishop's gaze, looks over, unashamed.
BISHOP: ...No.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Good evening, Mr. Bishop. How can I help you?
BISHOP: Yes. I'd like to speak to Dean. There's a brief pause on the phone, then.
WOMAN'S VOICE: ...Mr. Dean is not available right now. Can I take a message?
BISHOP: No. Just tell him I called. Bishop hangs up, stares at the phone. The doorbell rings. Bishop opens it to find a DHL COURIER on his doorstep. Bishop is suddenly casual, friendly. The public face of Bishop.
DON: That's the job.
(SIGNING): No, not yet. Maybe when I do, we'll take it out for a spin. Say hello to the wife for me.
DON: Will do. Good night, Arthur. The man heads back towards his truck. Bishop tears away the strip that seals the envelope, a small USB jump-drive slides into his hands. The friendly grin on Bishop's face... evaporates.
(INTO PHONE): We should all be so lucky. Click. The phone goes dead. Almost at the same time, the glowing red light on the jump-drive turns GREEN. Bishop's PRINTER fires up. It starts printing out pages. A few medical charts... and then a photograph: Harry McKenna. The new mark.
BISHOP: That's what I called about. I know him. I think there might be a
MCKENNA'S VOICE: Hello?
BISHOP'S VOICE: They want to talk. I'm picking you up in an hour.
BISHOP'S VOICE: Send your people home. I don't want anyone I don't know near you today. I'm serious.
MCKENNA'S VOICE: ...Thank you, Arthur.
BISHOP: I'm sorry. My bad. The guy at the counter shrugs, turns for a mop. Bishop quickly reaches into the McKenna bag, switches a wrapped sandwich for one he brought.
SECURITY #2: Hey, you okay?
SECURITY #1: Actually, call central. I'm not -- And with that, he's suddenly up and MOVING towards the bathroom. Security #2 raises his radio.
MCKENNA: You ever wonder what the last day of your life will feel like, Arthur?
BISHOP: You keep standing next to that window, maybe you'll be able to tell me. McKenna looks over, smiles weary. He looks exhausted. He goes to his desk, picks up a tie, looks to Bishop.
MCKENNA: This turns out alright, I'm going to send you a dozen Thai hookers and a case of Cuban Esplandidos. You can return the hookers if you want, but the cigars...
(SMILING): I don't smoke.
MCKENNA: You will, my friend. For these, you will.
BISHOP: Why the change of security?
MCKENNA: ...What? Beat. Bishop SLAPS the STOP button. Elevator jerks to a halt. Bishop gets a finger into the doors, PRIES them open.
BISHOP: Come on...
BISHOP: What the hell...? McKenna moves in, pushes Bishop aside. MCKENNA'S P.O.V.: His SECURITY. Only there are two new faces in the garage. Replacements packing weaponry.
MCKENNA: This isn't good, Arthur...
BISHOP: Listen to me. Stay here. I'm going to check it out.
MCKENNA: Bishop, those men are armed...
BISHOP: Harry, relax. I know what I'm doing. And Bishop slips out the door, shutting it behind him.
BISHOP'S VOICE: Harry! It's a trap! RUN!!! The door flies opens and Bishop LURCHES IN, gun raised. McKenna starts up the stairs, breathing hard. Behind him, he can see Bishop, gun lined back at the door. BLAM! BLAM! Gunshots assault his eardrums.
BISHOP: Come on! If we can get to the roof I can hold them off! Come on! McKenna GULPS AIR, staggers on...
MCKENNA: ...You. Bishop nods. McKenna CACKLES which turns into a scream as PAIN sends him reeling. He falls, hitting his head. Blood rolls down his face.
PRIEST: His good works comfort all of us, even in his going. We commit his remains to your earth, oh Father, and we pray you vouchsafe him eternal life and that you bring comfort to those who have been left behind. His only son, Steve, who is himself devoted to -- The Priest falters as Steve rises, moves away from the event. Bishop tracks him as he wanders through gravestones.
BISHOP: My condolences.
(NODS): Yeah, Harry was a popular guy. Good to see so many of his friends here. Touching. Bishop considers, tracks the attendees who pass by a suited man as they leave... Each of them receiving and pocketing an envelope as they do. Bishop looks back to Steve.
BISHOP: Looks like you have one.
STEVE: Yeah, all of that. Empty limos. Fake guests. All so that the papers print what an important and respected man Harry was. Steve takes in the one or two guests, already counting their money a few yards away. Shakes his head.
STEVE: You know, what I don't get is you. Harry didn't have any friends.
BISHOP: Your dad worked with my father a long time ago.
STEVE: So?
BISHOP: So, just paying my respects.
STEVE: So your old man was into all that?
(SMALL NOD): Yeah, he was into all that.
STEVE: Well, that is refreshingly honest, Mr. Bishop. What about you? Bishop doesn't answer, steers the car up a manicured drive. P.O.V. - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD: An ESTATE. A main house, lawns, pools, guest houses.
STEVE: Why is it so comforting, when people surpass even our lowest expectations?
(BEAT): Come on in, meet the crowd.
BISHOP: No, thanks. I've got to --
STEVE: Please. A favor to me. None of these people even remembered what today was. Bishop nods. They move into the scene. People recognize Steve, hug or bump-fists. Steve's friendly, but stays locked on Bishop. Bishop observes it all, not uncomfortable.
BISHOP: Why? A basketball hoop has been set up near the pool. Young men take turns dunking and then landing in the water.
STEVE: I think maybe we're all doomed to become our fathers. I'll probably die spoiled, corrupt, lonely and alone. Runs in the blood. What would that make you?
BISHOP: You're still young. You can do pretty much whatever you please. AT THE HOT TUB, two girls kiss each other, filmed in DV by an young entrepreneur.
STEVE: You think so? Just chuck all this and go help the children in South America, something like that?
BISHOP: Maybe.
STEVE: Well look at you, Mr. Bishop. You're a dreamer. Steve heads inside. A beat, Bishop follows.
BEAUTY #1: Well? Do you want to...?
STEVE: No, in fact I'm pretty sure that's illegal in this state.
(TO BISHOP): Come on, this way. Steve leaves the Beauties disappointed, moves up some stairs. Bishop follows.
STEVE: You know, I went up there. To where my father died.
BISHOP: Oh?
STEVE: Hell of a place to die. Lonely... Bishop comes abreast of Steve, also looks down. Removed from the party and the pool area, a separate area of the estate contains an outdoor gym. Weights, exercise equipment, a fighting matt and martial arts equipment all present.
BISHOP: (off the gym area) That all yours?
STEVE: If the body is weak, the mind can't be strong. Bishop nods, impressed. Something about this young man. Engaged, observing Bishop, but not needy.
FRIEND: She's up in the bungalow. I think she might really do it this time.
(TO BISHOP): My girlfriend thinks that my father's death is a good time to kill herself. She thinks I'm not showing the appropriate human reaction.
BISHOP: I'll let myself out.
STEVE: No, please. You've seen this much. Aren't you interested? I am. Off Bishop...
LOUISE: Who's he?
STEVE: A friend. Would have thought you'd have started by now.
LOUISE: This isn't about me. It's about you. You need to watch. Steve crouches down, pours himself a shot from her whiskey bottle. Something angry and cold in his eyes.
STEVE: Okay. I'm here. I'm watching.
LOUISE: You don't believe I'll do it.
STEVE: No, I know you, Louise. You'll do just about anything if it'll get you enough attention.
LOUISE: You think you can hide behind that cool attitude. Like nothing matters to you. But I know you. You care. You feel.
STEVE: Do I? Louise blinks, scared a little. But she pushes the fear away, picks up one of the razor blades. A beat, then with a quick gesture, she slices across one wrist. Blood rises to the surface, runs down her arms into the water. Steve doesn't move. Neither does Bishop. Louise picks up the second blade with the cut hand. Fingers fumble, but she gets it. Slices across her other wrist.
LOUISE: How long will it take?
(HE SHRUGS): Mr. Bishop? Bishop rises, looks down at her in the tub.
BISHOP: How much do you weigh?
LOUISE: A hundred and ten. His eyes take in her body, the flow from her wrists...
BISHOP: You're a hundred and twenty-five. It'll take an hour and a half, maybe two. When you get cold... then you'll know you're close. Steve takes in Bishop in this moment, nods. Glances at the clock: 9:30. Then he refills his drink, heads out to the patio outside. Sits facing away from them.
LOUISE: He'll stop it. He thinks he's above it all. But he's not. No one is. Bishop nods. Not clear if he's agreeing or observing.
(FROM INSIDE): Steve! Steve! I know you feel this. I know you'll stop me.
(CALLING BACK): If you don't care anything about your life, why should I? Steve looks to Bishop. He checks his watch. 10:30.
LOUISE: I'm getting cold. Please. I'm frightened. I'm scared, Steve. Bishop looks at Steve who just keeps staring outwards.
STEVE: You can help her if you want. The sounds of water, splashing. Louise arrives on the patio, a blood-stained robe loosely pulled on around her. Mascara eyes ran. She stares down at Steve.
LOUISE: You're a bastard.
STEVE: You know what the kick of it is, Louise? If you actually had the stones, then there's be something for us. But in 30 seconds when you run down that path and all of those people go crazy saving your life... Well, then we'll be done.
(BEAT): I know. Catch-22. Life's not fair.
(REALIZING): What happened to you?
STEVE: Maybe nothing. Maybe you never really knew me. A beat. Louise, looking between the two men. She SWAYS on her feet and Bishop puts a hand out, steadies her.
LOUISE: You're a bastard, too. Both of you. Like looking in some dark mirror.
STEVE: Go on, Louise. You'll do fine. The world's gonna love you. Louise steps away, turns, stumbling down the path into the dark. A beat, the men just watching after her and then a SCREAM from below. COMMOTION, ACTION. People rush to Louise, help her to the ground. Others pulling out cell phones, call for help. Louise's LOUD cries drift back.
BISHOP: Would you have let her do it?
STEVE: We'll never know, will we? Steve rises, heads up a small path.
BISHOP: You didn't answer my question.
STEVE: Everybody dies.
BISHOP: Sure. But it's a whole other world when you're personally involved. There's a very big tab that has to be picked up.
STEVE: Such as? Bishop stops, looks down at the action far below them.
BISHOP: Governments, cops, the military... we give young men a licence and send them into it blind, thinking it'll all be okay. Because someone told them they had permission.
(BEAT): But when you cross over that line, you do it alone. Most people, they stay that way from then on. Alone.
STEVE: Everybody can kill. You take a mother, protecting her child...
BISHOP: Sure. But that's instinct. What I'm talking about is up here... (tapping his head) Knowledge of foresight. Intention. A person who knows that the only way to truly be free of man's laws, is to break his highest one. Beat. It sits there, between them.
STEVE: Why are you telling me all this?
BISHOP: Why did you want me to see that little stunt with your girlfriend? Bishop stares down the hill at the commotion. Ants swarming.
STEVE: You know, you're right. You grow up spoiled, rich, like me... Only thing you really learn to recognize in people is when someone wants something from you.
(BEAT): What do you want, Mr. Bishop? What are you doing here? Bishop considers Steve, thrown. Then...
BISHOP: Thanks for the tour. It's been interesting.
STEVE: Yes, it has. Bishop turns, heads back down towards the estate. Steve watches him go.
FEMALE DOCTOR: Quite a collection you have here. Military?
BISHOP: Something like that.
FEMALE DOCTOR: Does this hurt? Bishop smiles, recognizing the nature of the touch.
BISHOP: Yes, a little. The doctor lets her hands rest just a fraction too long, then moves across the room, writes in a chart.
FEMALE DOCTOR: Any next of kin, anybody we can notify? (off his shake no) How about an acquaintance?
BISHOP: Am I going to die?
(SMILE): No, not today. Bishop reaches for his shirt, slips it on.
STEVE: Mr. Bishop! Arthur! Please, I need to speak with you. The front door opens. Bishop, fronting sleepy. Steve is ENERGIZED, LIT, eyes blazing.
BISHOP: What time is it?
STEVE: I wanna show you something. Please. It'll be... It'll be interesting.
BISHOP: Gonna tell me what the big surprise is?
STEVE: I'd rather show you. I know, melodramatic. But I think it'll be worth it to you. Bishop TENSES, almost imperceptible as Steve pilots the car into the underground structure beneath McKenna Holding Corp.
(CAREFUL): Maybe it's time you start talking.
STEVE: (off the papers) You know what that says? My dad didn't die of a heart attack. I mean, he was dying of a heart attack, but that's not what killed him. The blood flow to his brain was cut off, his brain died before his body. Somebody killed him. On Bishop, considering Steve.
BISHOP: What do the police think?
(LAUGHING): The police? They don't want to hear about this. I mean, they'll look into it. But they don't very much like the idea that they totally missed this one and it'd be just easier for everyone if I would shut the hell up.
BISHOP: ...What do you want?
STEVE: They killed him. Here, on the roof of his own building. His own security all around. Why here? Why even kill him, if he was already dying?
BISHOP: You tell me.
STEVE: To make a point. That no one's safe. That they can get to anyone, whenever they want to.
BISHOP: So what am I doing here? Bishop, supremely alert, listening. Tracking shadows...
STEVE: I got my black belt in Karate when I was nineteen. I've studied Judo since I was six.
BISHOP: I'm impressed.
STEVE: No, you're not. Most people are, but you're not. If I came at you right now, I'd wind up dead as my father, wouldn't I? Bishop doesn't answer. Steve breaks away, looks down at the place where his father died.
(BEAT): Something you could teach me.
BISHOP: I didn't get the impression you even liked Harry very much. Steve SURGES forward. Real anger, intensity boiling over.
STEVE: You really going to stand there and judge how much I loved my father? What the hell do you know about it? Bishop, hearing this. A nerve touched.
BISHOP: You want revenge. Steve doesn't answer. A long moment between them. Steve turns, looks out over the city.
STEVE: You know the word "Nemesis"? It's not actually a word. It's a name. She was one of the Greek goddesses. Of anger. Retribution against any mortal who became too proud.
STEVE (CONT'D): The executor of divine justice. It's a beautiful idea, don't you think? Justice.
BISHOP: Justice? A beat. Bishop shakes his head, turns, starts to walk back towards the elevators. Steve collects his papers, angry.
(CALLING AFTER): Fine. Fine. In case you haven't noticed, I now have a couple of million dollars to spend on this, so I will find them myself and I'll deal with them myself and if I wind up dead trying, you can bury me right next to dear old dad --
BISHOP: Jesus, stop your whining. SLAP! No one's ever spoken to Steve that way. He STARES. A stillness between them, even the wind slows, waiting...
STEVE: I won't. Beat. Bishop nods, starts to leave, turns back...
BISHOP: And Steve... no more surprises like this, okay? Steve nods. Bishop goes. On Steve, watching as the elevator doors erase the older man.
BISHOP: Stay focused. This is a test. Bishop moves down the rows, pulling drapes away as he does. Nude BODIES are revealed. Men, women, teens. In some, the reason for their death is obvious. Others aren't telling.
STEVE: The psychopath has no motive.
BISHOP: No, he's driven, compelled, by his sickness. He's as much the victim as those he kills. More drapes fall. Dead eyes stare up at them.
STEVE: I understand.
BISHOP: Do you? This isn't some idea anymore. This is the real thing. You still with me?
STEVE: I am. Another drape falls. A beautiful woman. No signs of injury.
BISHOP: Ever heard the term "Mechanic" used outside of its normal meaning?
STEVE: My father used it. A dealer... a guy who works the tables. Bishops smiles, shakes his head.
BISHOP: What are you thinking?
STEVE: I had you pegged as... a security consultant. Maybe ex-military. Someone who... protects people.
BISHOP: Maybe I do.
STEVE: Or maybe you just get paid to kill people. Bishop nods his head yes.
BISHOP: ...Times are changing. Security is better trained, more lethal. Sometimes I could use a partner.
STEVE: Bullshit. Bishop nods, smiles. He moves away from the tables, leaves Steve standing in the middle of it all.
BISHOP: In this... there isn't room for those who are outside of it. There's too much isolation. Friendships can't work. Eventually everyone expects you to account. The isolation... becomes a liability. You stand out. Standing out... isn't good. Steve smiles, shakes his head.
STEVE: You need a... friend?
BISHOP: An associate.
(BEAT): I'm offering to teach you something that most people can't be taught.
STEVE: Because you think I'm a natural.
BISHOP: That remains to be seen. (taps his head) But you're alone in there, aren't you? That's... the prerequisite. Steve continues to stare at the bodies. Bishops starts towards the exit.
STEVE: Bishop...
(BEAT): When I find the men who murdered my father. You help me to kill them.
BISHOP: You may never find them.
STEVE: You didn't answer my question. A beat. Bishop nods.
STEVE: I'm still at 130.
BISHOP: Too fast.
STEVE: I know. I'm working on it. Bishop nods, picks up the rifle, sights. BLAM! 1,000 yards away, the bullet IMPACTS the head-rest of an abandoned car. Bishop looks to Steve who gives up, raises the handgun. BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! Three shots. Three misses. Steve tosses down the gun, frustrated.
BISHOP: You were still over 100.
STEVE: What am I supposed to do?
BISHOP: There are no perfect situations. You fought me at 100%, so you were winning. But in doing so, you gave up your shooting option.
(BEAT): It's all about choices. Always. Bishop starts to leave.
STEVE: Bishop... What's your 100% look like? Bishop smiles.
STEVE: Come on up, man. The view is beautiful. Bishop takes in the situation, the small crowd gathering... he jumps up, sits on the hood of the car with Steve, both leaning back against the cracked windshield.
BISHOP: You lost control.
STEVE: You think? Steve puts out his beer. A hesitation, then Bishop clinks beers with him. They both drink. Stretched out in front of them, the highway seems to go on forever.
BISHOP: ...Sometimes.
STEVE: Why don't you?
BISHOP: I have... responsibilities. I have a cat. A beat. Steve LAUGHS loud. Bishop laughs. Maybe the first time in ages. They drink, watch the sun move lower in the sky as emergency vehicles approach.
STEVE: You know, looking at these, a person might think maybe there's a screw or two loose up there... Steve catches sight of a manila envelope in front of his empty place.
(SHAKING NO): Don't be so eager. Open it.
STEVE: Who's the Mark?
BISHOP: ...I am.
OWNER: Interest you in anything? Bishop takes in the man, eyes check polished reflective surfaces, back to the man. Bishop points to a watch.
BISHOP: That's a beauty.
(BEAMING): You know your instruments...
SALESMAN: They don't make that anymore. That's a classic. I can let you have it for three hundred...
BISHOP: ...Good. Very good.
STEVE: Good? That's all you got? How about God damn perfect, man?
BISHOP: Don't get cocky.
STEVE: Broad daylight. A thousand witnesses. Man takes a wrong step. Excuse me if I take a moment to appreciate myself. Because that was poetry. (laughing, smiling) You just can't bring yourself to be impressed, can you? Bishops considers, notices that the Luna Cromwell doll has fallen in the gutter. Picks it up, tries to dry it.
BISHOP: All right. You did very well.
STEVE: Damn straight I did. And now, in celebration of me, I'm taking you to a restaurant where the waitresses... what? Something about Bishop's serious gaze has stopped Steve. Bishop reaches into his jacket, places a gun in Steve's hands. A confused beat, Steve conceals the weapon.
BISHOP: There's a man behind me. Look up once, then look away. Don't look back. Steve glances up. We realize we're right in front of the watch store. The OWNER is pulling the steel grate down over his store, closing for the day.
STEVE: Yeah. Look...
BISHOP: You did good here. Really good. But this was just a game. That man... is your graduation.
STEVE: Who is he?
BISHOP: He owns the watch store.
STEVE: I know. I meant... what did he do? Bishop comes close, FOCUSED.
BISHOP: I've taught you how to kill without anyone knowing there was a murder. I've taught you to be invisible. But that's strategy, not killing. The real test... it's the actual killing, isn't it?
STEVE: Bishop...
BISHOP: Do you want this? Be very sure. Because you can walk away.
STEVE: No. I'm ready. Bishop studies him... nods. Turns to go.
BISHOP: ...School's out. Bishop leaves. Steve watches him go. Stuck. Helpless. He turns back. The Owner is headed home for the day.
BISHOP: (to Luna doll) Who do you think that is, Luna? He takes a card out of his wallet, studies it. It's from the flirtatious doctor. He pulls out his phone, dials.
(FROM INSIDE): It's open!
WOMAN'S VOICE: I'll just be a minute. A GLIMPSE of the woman in her bedroom, topless in front of a vanity. She glances back, smiles warm. Laughs a little when she sees the doll.
BISHOP: It's for a friend. Bishop awkwardly sets the doll down near the front door, moves on, into the apartment. Restless.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Don't be. He turns. She's emerged from the bedroom, adjusting the dress she's just pulled on. Beautiful. She comes up to him, kisses him. He doesn't respond. She backs off, moves to the kitchen to pour two wines,
WOMAN: You know who I saw yesterday?
(BEAT): Bradley Fliescher. He and Ginny have this little cottage up the coast they hardly use. I was thinking, maybe next week you and I should go. Approaching, handing him a wine.
(QUIET): Do you know what I dreamed? I dreamed you and I had a child... Bishops turns from the screen, walks away. Beat, she silences the TV, moves to join him.
WOMAN: I know, it's crazy. I don't want to pin you down. I know you need your freedom. I just... sometimes I miss you so much... He's staring at her, oddly.
(BEAT): I'm sorry, Bishop. It won't happen again.
(NODDING): It's okay. Really. It's okay.
(WEAKLY): Who... are... you? Steve doesn't answer, just keeps PRESSING. And finally... the man's eyes film over. He dies. Steve just KEEPS PRESSING. Locked. Horrified. Staring into the dead man's face. Finally, he rolls off. Flops back against the wall, broken, bleeding, weeping... He SCREAMS. From the heart, the guts, releasing EVERYTHING.
WOMAN: Hey, Bishop. You okay? He stares into his wine. Raises the glass to drink. His hand shakes.
BISHOP: Do you remember, what you wanted to be, when you were a little girl? She hears it, it wounds her. Looks down.
WOMAN: No, it's okay. I wanted to be a Marine Biologist. I used to watch those Jaques Cousteau movies and just... dream.
BISHOP: What happened?
(BEAT): I was beautiful. He hears the simple truth of it, nods, respectful. He rises and goes to the music box on the mantle, takes out his wallet and removes the twenty $100 bills.
BISHOP: We all gotta make a living. He leaves, grabbing the doll as he goes. She watches him go, strangely. Sadness breaking through her cool.
SOPHIE: Thank you, thank you! Bishop! Mom!
BISHOP: I saw that in a... I'm sorry, I probably should have asked. A small beat that says "Yes, you should have."
GROCER: Don't worry about it, Bishop. You have a good night.
BISHOP: Go ahead.
STEVE: Are you surprised to see me? Beat. Steve reaches over, turns on a table lamp as he looks up. His face is BRUISED, bloody. His clothing, stained and ripped. In his hand, Bishop's gun from the sideboard. Bishop TENSES, doesn't react. Steve spits blood, smiles.
(BEAT): It was sitting there, right in front of my face, wasn't it? Bishop doesn't respond.
BISHOP: There's a code, to what we do. It may not be rational, but it matters. The man's name was Harry Xiao. He was a Mechanic. Last year a US Representative died in a fire... along with his wife and two children.
BISHOP (CONT'D): A few months ago, a CEO vacationing in Costa Rica was found dead with his wife. Because the woman was tortured, the authorities believed it was drug related.
STEVE: Bishop! --
BISHOP: Civilian casualties are very effective at hiding intent, but there's a line ---
STEVE: I don't give a damn about that! You haven't answer my question: Did he kill my father? Bishop doesn't react, then...
BISHOP: You should put that behind you now. Steve nods, swallowing emotion. Bishop starts to move and Steve is suddenly there, still angry, pointing the gun right in Bishop's face.
STEVE: I could have died today!
BISHOP: You didn't.
STEVE: Blind fucking luck! Look at me! You tried to kill me! That man was... he was unstoppable.
BISHOP: But you stopped him.
STEVE: Fuck you! You sonofabitch! Give me one good reason I don't blow you away right now! ONE GOD DAMN
BISHOP: Now I'm sorry if you got a little scared. But this isn't coaching girl's softball, is it? This is life or death. Every time you go into this, somebody dies.
BISHOP (CONT'D): Every time, it's you or the other man. So stop your crying. He releases Steve who falls to the floor, sucking air.
(POINTING): That used to be my front door. Try to close it on the way out. Bishop starts to go. Steve's words stop him.
STEVE: Bishop. Those things... they don't mean anything to me. This, makes sense. I don't know why. But I think I was meant to do this.
(BEAT): And like you said, you could use someone. Bishop studies Steve a long beat. Shakes his head, goes into his study. Steve follows.
BISHOP: We should all be so lucky. The phone goes dead. The light on the drive turns GREEN. Bishop's PRINTER fires up. It starts printing out pages... ON BISHOP and STEVE. Watching the pages feed out. PHOTOS: A new Mark at an elegant gathering of powerful men and women. Tall, powerful, entitled. His arm around a Turkish beauty in an elegant black one-piece. Emerging from a limousine at a large public event. Security EVERYWHERE. The same beauty on his arm. Charts. Height, weight, medical history. Bank accounts, figures. Leases, deeds of property. A LAST PHOTO: Peeling out of the printer... THE WOMAN, the beauty, in a diplomatic power-suit.
STEVE: Bishop... Nemesis. Devine Retribution. ...What did she do? Beat. Unsaid questions asked, unanswered.
STEVE: (eyes moving fast) Sixteen, no, eighteen. Four second intervals. One of the men notices Steve who starts forward to ask a question. The man points him down the hallway towards the consulat's reception. Steve's eyes track monitors.
BISHOP: Work it again.
STEVE: She never leaves. It's like they know we're coming.
BISHOP: Maybe they do. Steve nods, continues pacing, scoops up Bishop's cat and strokes her. Bishop watches him.
STEVE: Falls off the rooftop.
BISHOP: Falls or jumps? Steve moves to the wall of pictures, his gaze lingering on shots of her on vacation is a swimsuit.
(SMILING): I tell you one thing, killing her is not the first thing that jumps to mind... what? Bishop HEARS this, frowns, moves forward. His eyes scan: The Mark at the pool, getting ready to swim. The security...
BISHOP: Nothing. I'm going for a run. You wanna come?
STEVE: Let me ask you something. You ever not feel like running 5 miles?
STEVE: I don't know. Feels disturbed.
BISHOP: Always made me feel... understood.
(BEAT): Come on.
BISHOP: The Mark is a beautiful woman. Before arriving at her current position, she enjoyed the way men looked at her. That's gone now. She needs to be taken seriously. She hates that men only see the beauty. Magazines, heads of state, all focusing how what a piece of tail she was. Like you did. Steve SQUINTS... Bishop slaps a picture of the pool, the Mark swimming. Two SECURITY AGENTS positioned.
STEVE: ...He can't see her.
BISHOP: He can't see her. Neither of them can. Beat. PHONE RINGS. Bishop snaps it up.
BISHOP: Run it again.
STEVE: Patrol number three moves down the service corridor at 18:50. Five minute window after to make it up top. Three minute climb to position. That's 18:54. Three minute window to engage. Shake, stir, add lime and enjoy. Bishop smiles, looks away.
BISHOP: ...This business, it's not like there's a degree you can go get. It's like most trades, it gets passed down.
BISHOP (CONT'D): My father was very good, better than I'll ever be. But no one controls 100%. The nature of the work is that some people know who you are and what you do.
(BEAT): A man told his girlfriend, to impress her. The girlfriend told some people she owned money to... Bishop finishes his glass of water.
STEVE: You ever wish you just... walked away? Let it go?
BISHOP: Sure. Every day. But I wasn't wired that way.
(BEAT): What about you? Beat. Steve and Bishop, oddly locked... BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Three SMALL EXPLOSIONS in the kitchen. FLAMES shoot out of the galley. A cook stumbles out, on fire. A waiter douses him with water. People SCREAM! Alarms BLARE! Steve and Bishop. They haven't moved a muscle.
SECURITY: Fire in the restaurant. (into radio, Turkish) Patrols two and five, we're closing down the front entrance.
SECURITY PRO: Excuse me, 'mam. There's a fire next door, nothing to worry about. The Mark nods. The man locks the door behind him, crosses the room, leaves through the main door, professional.
STEVE: Hey! You need to get out! Whole building is going up! Bishop and Steve move on as the startled employees leave. They move down five doors, push into...
BISHOP: Ready?
GUARD #2 (TURKISH): It's the second time it's come open. She still swimming?
GUARD #2 (TURKISH): Oh hell... The Mark floats face-up in the pool, just under the surface.
STEVE: How did it go --
BISHOP: Not yet. As if on cue, an ALARM BLARES. Excited voices come on over an embassy wide PA System. VOICES from the next room. Bishop opens the chute again as Steve cracks a glowstick, puts it between his teeth, swings his legs in, and DROPS. ACROSS THE ROOM. The door to the dressing room opens, armed guards flood in, along with Embassy officials speaking on radios. The room is empty.
STEVE: Alright, you gotta admire that. You gotta admit, we are a spooky good team...
BISHOP: Duck... Steve looks at Bishop and BOOM! Doors BLOW OPEN, THREE GUARDS burst through, machine guns raised and SPITTING... Steve hits the deck. Watching Bishop, it's like everything we've seen so far was in slow motion. This is the real thing, unleashed. Bishop WRAPS the first man up, uses his Kevlar vest as a shield to catch the fire from the other two. The man SCREAMS as his arm breaks. Bishop gets control of his weapon, focuses it on the other two. One is BLOWN back. The other DIVES for cover. Fluid, Bishop REVERSES the man, pushes him AWAY from him, coming up with TWO of the man's Flash-bangs in each hand. Each hand DIALS the grenade's timers to two different settings, simultaneously POPPING the levers. Second attacker FIRES a burst which Bishop DUCKS, the bullets stitching across the first attacker, SLAMMING him back, his rounds TEARING into the ceiling, showering Steve in debris. Bishop THROWS the first grenade which reaches the attacker just as he rises for another shot. BOOM!
BISHOP: Hey! Hey! You still here?
STEVE: ...It was my fault. I was in charge of the exit. I looked at every work order, every entry in the building logs...
BISHOP: No one controls 100% That's the nature of the beast. Steve swallows, nods as Bishop brings the Buick around a last corner, ACCELERATING at the closed gate in front of them, a Turkish guard waving his arms frantically...
BISHOP: Hey! You did good in there. You hear me?. It was asking a lot. You came through. Steve nods, processing, accepting. Another TURN. Bishop slides the car to a stop in a covered lot. Across from them, Bishop's own Cobra waits. Behind them, the police car tears by, lost.
STEVE: You're bleeding.
BISHOP: ...Yup.
STEVE: So back there. That was one hundred percent? Bishop looks over, gives nothing. Tiny smile.
STEVE: Do you think you know it, when you've made the mistake you won't survive? Or will it be like the Marks? Wake up on top of the world, never know...
BISHOP: (shaking head no) That one... is for a special moment. Haven't found it yet.
STEVE: You haven't found the... Are you kidding? You have to -- what? Bishop's eyes SHOOT open. He looks out the window where a series of SEDANS are pulling up. Men get out, approach.
BISHOP: This could get... interesting.
MAN: Mr. Bishop? Mr. Dean would like a moment of your time. Off Bishop who... nods.
STEVE: Do it. I don't care what it costs.
DEAN: You look like shit.
(BEAT): How does Harry McKenna's son figure in?
BISHOP: He's going to be working with me from now on.
DEAN: You sure that's wise?
BISHOP: Do I need your permission?
DEAN: No... And for the record, I don't believe you'd ask for it. Dean grabs a remote control on his desk, points it at the set of flatscreens on the wall which hum to life, muted. News reports featuring the killing of the Turkish Embassador. Shots of the woman, smiling. Helicopter shots of the pool structure. Words scroll: "Terror on our soil." "Assassination!" "US Envoy ejected from Turkey..."
(POINTING): That was my baby. But my baby has turned into an epic shit-storm and so when the man who caused said epic shit storm suddenly decides to do some soul-searching...
(PLAINLY): What are you doing, Bishop?
BISHOP: The mistake was mine, not the kid's.
BISHOP: Someone I trained. That could be worth a lot to you. Dean laughs, rises with nervous energy and goes to the interior blinds, raises one. From here they can see out over the office. Glimpses of a dozen conversations. Other men and women at work. More than a couple glance over towards Dean's office. A predatory vibe.
DEAN: And here I thought we were both going to live forever. Bishop smiles. Dean stares at him. Bishop stares back. Suddenly, this becomes the moment, the decision...
BISHOP: Yes. The two men, face to face. Then Dean's phone rings. He turns to it, snaps it up.
(ON PHONE): Hey, Stanley. Yes, we're all sorted out. I just need you to --
BISHOP: The hit, on the woman. What was the reason? Dean looks back, surprised, angered.
(ON PHONE): I'm calling you back. Dean clicks off, takes in this change of rules. A dead seriousness infects his voice. Fear.
(BEAT): This isn't the time for questions. This is the time for survival. Everyone... is expendable. Beat. Dean turns away, picks up the phone again.
(INTO PHONE): Yeah, get me Stan again...
LOUISE: Come on, baby. What's the matter? Finally, something does catch his attention: At the gate, a DHL Van pulling up, the driver heading toward him. Steve lowers his glasses.
BISHOP: Steve! Steve...!?
LATER: Bishop tense, in his study, holding the phone which rings... rings... Steve's voice comes on the voicemail: "Hi, this is Steve. You know what to do."
LATER: Bishop, sitting on his couch. On the TV in front of him, images from a protest in Turkey, an American flag burning. Bishop's eyes flick to the stack of DVDs from the woman. No. He keeps watching the news images. His phone rings. He snatches it up.
BISHOP: Seems that way.
BISHOP: Okay.
STEVE: There you are. Thanks for coming.
BISHOP: What's on your mind? Steve just smiles, shakes his head. Bishop stares at him, tense, confused. Each trying to read the other. Then Steve raises a bottle of whiskey to his mouth, drinks. Bishop takes a step forward and... ... LIGHTS WASH THE SPACE! Explosions! SOUND FILLS THE AIR!
BISHOP: It's not my birthday.
STEVE: When was the last time you celebrated your real birthday? No response from Bishop. Steve nods, swigs the bottle again. He's lit, something fierce and fiery in his eyes.
BISHOP: Who are these people?
STEVE: They think you're a friend of mine, a producer, from Canada.
(BEAT): In other words, they're all your best friends.
(TO BISHOP): So what movies have you made?
(JUMPING IN): Oh, he makes the really violent, disturbing stuff. You wouldn't know it to look at him, I know, but what's locked up away in there... (tapping his head) Frightening, man.
MODEL: God, I love those. Which ones --
BISHOP: Mr. KcKenna has a creative relationship with the truth. I don't actually... The model glances around, unsure...
MODEL: Oh, okay. That's funny. So what do you do?
STEVE: Yes, Mr. Bishop. What do you do? Bishop doesn't respond. He's just staring down. BISHOP'S P.O.V.: Discarded, lying beneath the sofa the models are perched on: The tear-strip from a DHL Envelope.
BISHOP: Excuse me... He comes up short, realizes he's staring into the face of the Woman. She's utterly different than we've seen her. Tonight, she's the clubbing party-girl. Dark lipstick, bright blue wig, heavy eye-liner.
WOMAN: Hi... This is strange. The Rapper she's with has found a group of his buddies. High- fives all around. He glances around for his date...
BISHOP: Is he your...?
WOMAN: No, just a job. (off his nod) I have to...
BISHOP: I know. Go on. She nods, turns away. He also turns, starts moving through the crowd, pushing through DANCING BODIES... ... and suddenly she's back with him. No words. Lights and sound and dance around them. She leans forward, kisses Bishop once. Backs off, smiles, turns away and makes her way back to the guy she came in with who tucks her under his arm without missing a beat, mid-story with his posse. Bishop... staring. Turns away as the MUSIC STOPS. Steve's voice fills the outdoor space, amplified.
STEVE: Ladies and gentlemen! The man of the hour! A SPOTLIGHT hits Bishop. He squints up as the crowd makes space for him. Steve's near the DJ, speaking on a mic.
BISHOP: Sorry... Sorry for leaving. I'm just not used to --
STEVE: No worries, man. It's your party. You can leave it.
(BEAT): It's true, isn't it? What you said to me the first time we met.
BISHOP: What's that?
STEVE: This thing we do. Finally, you always do it alone. Bishop nods unconsciously, starts towards his car, forces himself to stop.
BISHOP: Steve... thank you.
STEVE: Uh-oh. I can feel some male bonding coming. We gonna hug it out, Bishop?
BISHOP: No, I'm serious. Thank you. People don't... Anyway, it's been a long time, since someone did something for me. Steve looks back, nods. Strangely dark.
STEVE: Happy Birthday, Arthur. Steve raises a hand, shoots Bishop with a finger. A wink, and he turns and is gone, back to the party. Bishop climbs into his car, pulls away.
(CALLING OUT): Are you all having fun! SHOUTS and NODS. LAUGHTER.
LOUISE: Hey! Hey baby! Karen's got some amazing E. You need to come try... Steve turns those cool eyes on her. She shrinks. We think he might slap her, then:
STEVE: Give me a moment. I'll be right there. We'll do that amazing E. And he looks away, back down over the view. A resigned loneliness settling into his features.
BISHOP: Huh. His eyes dart to an image of his DINING ROOM. It looks like a still, until suddenly Bishops' cat passes through the frame. Bishops' eyes dart, moving from frame to frame. The whole interior of his life. His living room, bedroom, study, gym. All live feeds.
BISHOP: Whiskey. Neat. Lots of it. Bishop fumbles in his pocket, brings out a thick wad of cash. $100s and $20s. Eyes track. At a booth, two EX CONS lock onto Bishop, one sporting a middle-finger raised FU tattoo on his bare shoulder. Bishop pushes $100 forward.
BARTENDER: That's too much. Bishop grabs the shot, down it. Pushes the empty shot and the cash back at the bartender.
BISHOP: I'm not going anywhere.
--: Bartender hits a remote, annoyed. Channel changes to a 70's Charles Bronson flick. Bishop blinks, shakes his head... He collects himself, weaves out of the bar. The Ex-Cons watch him go.
BISHOP: ...More. WHAM! WHAM! Bishop takes the punches, no defense. Face punished. The guy backs off, slightly winded.
EX CON: Dude, you don't want any more, give us that money. Bishop shakes his head. WHAM! WHAM! Two more hits to the body. Bishop just keeps taking the punishment. Seems to relish it. Spits blood.
BISHOP: Look, I'll give you my money, but you have to promise me you won't spend it all on lipstick and tampons. Ex Con #2 pulls a gun, puts it to Bishop's head.
EX CON #2: You wanna die right here, motherfucker? Bishop raises his eyes to the man. Not so drunk after all.
BISHOP: ...Thank you.
(SLEEPY): Steve...? Where are you, baby?
STEVE: Hello? Bishop? He enters the study, sees the WALL, the night's work. In the center, a photograph of Dean, Bishop's boss.
STEVE: So who is he?
BISHOP: ...US Government. NSA. Very well protected.
STEVE: What happened to you?
BISHOP: You should see the other guy. Bishop TOSSES Steve an object, goes back outside. Steve looks at it. A WELDER'S helmet with visor.
STEVE: What's that?
BISHOP: This... is liquid Semtex with a built in combustible. Very volatile. Nice and shiny once it dries. But don't... scratch it. Bishop takes a knife, scratches the surface of the coin-sized disc, then backs off, by Steve, back into
STEVE: So that's how we take him out?
BISHOP: (shaking his head) No. That's just to focus the mind.
STEVE: You makes bombs to focus your mind.
BISHOP: What do you do? (beat, off the Wall) This one's different. They want it fast, and they don't want it to look like an accident. Someone wants to send a message.
STEVE: Like with my father.
BISHOP: Yes. Like that.
STEVE: Didn't think that was your style.
(BEAT): First time for everything. Steve looks at Bishop. BOOM! Outside the explosion CONCUSSES against the house. A window CRACKS. Steve crouches, hands covering his head.
STEVE: Jesus... Bishop puts a hand out.
BISHOP: There's something I haven't told you.
STEVE: What?
BISHOP: ...I broke a rule. I brought you in without asking. So this hit, is a test. Of us, of our arrangement. (beat, off Dean's picture) If that man is breathing three days from now... then they'll need to make an example of us. Do you understand? Steve ... nods. Takes Bishop's hand who pulls him up.
STEVE: So what you're saying is you and I are stuck with each other.
BISHOP: I'm sorry.
STEVE: ...For what?
BISHOP: For getting you into this --
STEVE: I knew what I was doing. Bishop considers, nods.
BISHOP: Get packed.
STEVE: ...I count six... no seven at the main door. P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: The front entrance of the NSA building. The security check Bishop went through.
STEVE: ... Alright, got him. He's at his desk. We could take the shot right from here.
BISHOP: Glass is three inches thick... Steve moves his hand to turn on the laser Bishop used before to listen with...
STEVE: Alright, fine. What are we doing here? Who is this guy? P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: Dean shouts into the phone, slams it down. Leaves his office. Bishop pulls away from the telescope, hunkers down to wait.
BISHOP: Starting to get it?
STEVE: Yeah, I'm getting that this isn't a job. It's just a really complicated... suicide. Bishop smiles. Steve moves off, restless.
STEVE: You know, you can front sonofabitch all you want, Bishop. You're scared, too. You don't really know how we're going to pull it off, do you? You ever think there's some things that just can't be done?
BISHOP: Everyone has a death --
STEVE: Really? Because, this guy? I look at this guy, I don't see his death. I see my death. And I don't particularly like the view. Bishop notes the lights going back on in Dean's office, returns to the telescope and starts jotting notes in a book. P.O.V. THROUGH THE TELESCOPE: Dean back at his desk. He looks exhausted.
(INNOCENTLY): You any good with computers?
STEVE: Everybody out. I'm serious. Get the fuck off my property. A moment, then people start to flee. Only Louise, drink in hand, moves towards Steve, confused.
LOUISE: Steve, baby...?
STEVE: You, too.
STEVE: It's the US Attorney's office in New York. He's running. He's trying to get out. Steve, trying to read Bishop's face, ZOOMING in.
STEVE: ...No, I don't suppose it does. A beat. The two men, far separated.
STEVE: Besides, the angle isn't right, too flat. Except when they hit the stairs. It'll spread the group vertically. It's... the shot. Steve and Bishop work in quiet efficient silence. Each opens their bag, removes a series of innocuous objects, begins to dismantle them for the more important parts they conceal. From a clock, a firing mechanism. From the tube, an aluminum barrel holds a fishing rod. The rod is discarded, the barrel is attached to a hard plastic stock. AA Batteries are opened and slender shells are removed from each. As this strange choreography continues in silence, we PAN ACROSS to the dining room where a WOMAN and a MAN are bound and tied, pillowcases cinched over their heads. Their bindings allow them to hold each other's hands which they do, tight. They're terrified, but okay. Back in the living room, Bishop adds the last piece to the home-made rifle, a telescope, lifted from a child's gift box, snaps it on top of the rifle.
STEVE: You ever worry about the right and wrong of it all? I'm not talking about God, just... (tapping his chest) Whatever you feel here. BISHOP'S P.O.V. THROUGH THE SCOPE: The US Attorney building. The security detail. The steps leading to the street.
BISHOP: It's a little late for --
STEVE: Come on. You're telling me you've never done anything just because it was the right thing to do, even if it didn't make any sense? You never took a chance like that? Bishop pulls his eye away from the scope a touch.
BISHOP: Once I did...
STEVE: How'd that work out for you? Beat. Then suddenly Bishop's view is obscured by a large truck, which has stopped trying to make the turn.
BISHOP: We have a problem... Bishop moves the scope, precisely looking for alternatives. Nothing. He sets the rifle down, thinking as Steve takes in the new situation.
STEVE: There's no shot. What do we do? There's no shot.
BISHOP: On your four. You see him? Coming up, a MAN in a jogging suit stretches, touches his ear where's he's wired. Steve and Bishop come abreast of him. WHAM! Steve pushes him down into the garbage alley between two homes. WHAM! WHAM! The man drops. Steve comes back, the man's gun palmed. Offers it to Bishop.
STEVE: When?
BISHOP: You'll know when. WITH THEM, MOVING, taking the corner onto the main street in front of the large building.
(ON PHONE): Hey... Listen, I need you to go out of town for a few days. No, I know, but you have to trust me.
DEAN (CONT'D): Just go -- no, don't tell me where. Just go, okay. Okay? Yes, I'll call you soon, I gotta go...
DEAN: ...Bishop? Bishop does NOTHING. Security reads Dean's fear, closes on Bishop even as Dean himself starts to BACK AWAY, separating himself from his own security, now turning to RUN... ... Straight into Steve, gun raised. A small moment frozen in time as Dean understands his end... BANG BANG! - BANG! Steve double-taps Dean in the chest, then one to head. And CHAOS begins its rule. Security which were closing on Bishop now REVERSE, draw weapons and FIRE at Steve who drops down in the small cement crease between stairs and statues. ON STEVE. Ducked low, bullet shattering granite and marble around him, LAUGHING. The first glimpse of something WRONG inside this young man.
BISHOP: Get in. Security are standing up, opening up, as Steve DIVES forward.
STEVE: Thanks.
BISHOP: Behind you. Steve has half a second to puzzle this one as the Driver grabs him from behind, HAULS him backwards. Bishop eyes his mirrors, counting the number of vehicles pursuing. Eyes makes calculations, gets distracted for a moment from the RAGING FISTFIGHT between Steve and the Driver occurring in the rear compartment.
BISHOP: Get in front.
STEVE: Working on that...
BISHOP: Now! Bishop HAULS UP the E-Brake, putting the Limo into a SPIN. The shift in force tosses Steve and Guard across the rear space. Steve dives forward towards the front as...
STEVE: We have got to go! Steve's pointing at the rear exit. It looks far away.
BISHOP: I'm sorry I brought you into this.
STEVE: Not now, Bishop, we have to --
BISHOP: It was... It was the only thing I knew how to teach you. Steve looks at him oddly, moved. Then...
STEVE: Don't worry about it, Bishop. I brought myself into this. Bishop considers this, nods. And he's UP AND FIRING towards the SWAT.
BISHOP: Go!
BISHOP: ...Why?
STEVE: You don't know? Tense beat. Glimpsed through shattered windows, SWAT arrives, takes the perimeter. They're being surrounded. Suddenly an SUV pulls into view between the restaurant and the SWAT and Police position, a confused and frightened WOMAN at the wheel. Police SHOUT at her, confusing her more. Steve makes a decision. Lowers his weapon, grabs a napkin, ties it to hide his features.
US ATTORNEY: ...Something is wrong in this country. But today because of the actions of a few cowardly men, we may never know the true face of -- A voice announces boarding, drowning out the TV. Bishop collects his things.
STEVE: You know, when they came to me... I said "Are you sure?" Bishop?" But They're right, aren't they?
STEVE: ...You don't really like the work anymore. Bishop's voice comes from the darkness near the barn.
BISHOP: Maybe not. BLAM! BLAM! Steve SHOOTS as Bishop MOVES, finds cover.
STEVE: Yeah. That's... what did you call it? That's a prerequisite.
(BEAT): Besides, I guess I had other reasons.
BISHOP: If it matters, today we killed the man who ordered the hit on your father.
STEVE: Yeah, but not the man who actually killed him. Steve advances, clearing the side of the barn, LINES his weapon on Bishop, who's standing next to the barn.
BISHOP: Why'd you kill those other people?
STEVE: (shakes his head) You really going moral high ground on me? Seriously? You might want to check your soapbox there, partner.
(CALLING OUT): But that's the difference between us, isn't it? You're all alone, but you still... like people. You wish they liked you. Whereas I have people everywhere... and all I ever want, is to be alone. Steve hears BANGING coming from the barn.
BISHOP'S VOICE: ...Steve, if you hear this, then it means you found the right moment to play the record. Good for you. It also means you had to scratch the needle across the surface of the record. Steve's eyes LOCK on the record player, the needle scratching across its surface, from the surface of the record, the smallest trace of smoke...
