DRIVER: Goddamn bugs. He squirts some wiper fluid onto the glass, which clears it up a bit, but now he sees something worse up ahead. It's a grouping of headlights, eight of them, all pointed at him, sealing off the road. He bites his lip and calls over his shoulder, to the back of the van. He speaks in Spanish, which is subtitled.
AGENT JANUS: Well. Nick the Dick. What a surprise. Where you comin' from?
DRIVER: I was fishing in Cuernavaca.
AGENT JANUS: Sure you were. What do you say we have a look at your catch?
AGENT JANUS: Me, I woulda thrown 'em back. Vamanos. Fuera. Hagan una lina! They pile out of the van. Some are parents with small children.
KAY: We'll take it from here.
AGENT JANUS: Who the hell are you? Kay and Dee flash some form of ID.
KAY: INS Division 6.
AGENT JANUS: Division 6? I never heard of Division 6.
KAY: Kay and Dee move past him and approach the row of nervous immigrants.
DEE: Tough call, Kay. He walks down the row, studying the faces, greeting each one cheerily in !Oye! Que pasa, coma estas? Hey! No se preocupe, abuela. Bienvenida a los Estados Unidos. A donde vas? San Antonio? Buscando trabajo, no? Buena suerta. Es un placer verle aqui. One by one, their faces relax, reassured by Kay's calm demeanor. When he reaches the fifth Guy, he keeps the same cheery tone, but:
KAY: !Oye! Que pasa, coma estas? Hey! No se preocupe, abuela. Bienvenida a los Estados Unidos. A donde vas? San Antonio? Buscando trabajo, no? Buena suerta. Es un placer verle aqui. One by one, their faces relax, reassured by Kay's calm demeanor. When he reaches the fifth Guy, he keeps the same cheery tone, but:
AGENT JANUS: Tomen el camion, y vayeuse.
KAY: Tomen el camion, y vayeuse.
AGENT JANUS: Sir, you can't just
KAY: Don't "Sir" me! You have no idea who you're dealing with! Silence on the road. The Driver grins, jumps back in the front seat of the van. The others pile into the rear and they tear out of there.
AGENT JANUS: You ever heard of Division 6?
KAY: I think you jumped off the bus in the wrong part of town, amigo. In fact, I'll bet dollars to pesos that you're not He pulls out a small laser device, which he ZIPS neatly down the front of the man's clothes.
DEE: You know how many treaty articles you've just violated? Mikey makes a lame SQUEAK.
KAY: One, my ass. Try seven.
DEE: From unauthorized immigration to failure to properly inoculate prior to landing.
KAY: ( off Mikey's objections ) Okay, that's enough. Hand me your head and put up your arms. From behind Mikey, they hear a terrified GASP. Kay and Dee both look over quickly. One of the alien's eyes, on a tall stalk, whips around too. All three of them see AGENT JANUS, standing just over the rise, staring in frozen amazement.
AGENT JANUS: Th th th
KAY: ( helping ) That wasn't wasn't wasn't
AGENT JANUS: That wasn't wasn't wasn't
KAY: Human, I know. Oops. Got some entrails on He takes out a handkerchief and wipes off the Agent's face. As he does, Janus looks back to where Mikey blew up. Then at Kay. And then up at the The other INS Agents burst over the rise, SHOUTING questions.
KAY: Okay, everybody, situation's under control, calm down. If you'll just give me your attention for a moment I'll tell you what From over the rise, car engines WHINE in the distance and headlights start to flash around them. Kay reaches into his pocket and pulls out a tubular metallic device the size of a pocket recorder. He checks his watch, figures in his head, then dials an electronic counter on the side of the device up to "08."
KAY: Exactly the right question. And the answer lies right here. Pay attention.
JANUS: Who are you, really?
KAY: Really? I'm just a figment of your He holds up the neuralyzer. The Agents peer closely at it. Kay reaches into his pocket, puts on his own black sunglasses and pushes a button on the side of the neuralyzer. A BLINDING FLASH a tenth of a second long sears the Agents' eyeballs. They stare blankly.
AGENT JANUS: What blast? Kay gestures behind him, where the Men in Black are now using fire extinguishers to douse the flames they themselves started.
KAY: Underground gas vein, genius. You guys need to exercise more caution before discharging your firearms. He jabs a finger into Janus' chest.
DEE: I'm sorry. About.back there.
KAY: Didn't used to. He holds up his hands, which tremble with age.
DEE: Didn't used to. He holds up his hands, which tremble with age.
KAY: The stars. We never just look. Anymore. I'll tell ya, Kay. I will miss the chase. Kay pulls his neuralyzer from his pocket and looks down at it.
DEE: The stars. We never just look. Anymore. I'll tell ya, Kay. I will miss the chase. Kay pulls his neuralyzer from his pocket and looks down at it.
KAY: No. You won't.
EDWARDS: Stop! NYPD! He continues running, out of frame, and we stay on one of the other COPS, overweight, who gives up the chase and drops to his knees, heaving air.
COP: All yours, Edwards! The Cop fumbles in his pocket for a pack of cigarettes.
EDWARDS: Grand Central Station off to your left, With the bus still moving, he scrambles down the circular stairs and runs out through the side door. He spots the Perp, sailing east on Forty-first Street.
EDWARDS: Dammit, man, you're making me sweat up my Edwards spots one of those New York Post delivery trucks, the kind with the open back door, rumbling by. He runs and jumps into the back.
EDWARDS: Yo, man, your luck just ran out. He leaps from the back of the moving truck and tackles the Perp. The Perp, now straddled by Edwards, is terrified.
PERP: He's coming! He's coming!
EDWARDS: And when he gets here, I'll kick his ass Edwards is about to slap the cuffs on him, when the Perp blinks. Nothing unusual about that, but then another set of translucent, milky white eyelids, underneath his regular eyelids, blinks also. Edwards is thrown for a moment, which is all the time the Perp needs to pull out. His WEAPON, which is the strangest looking gun you've ever seen. Reacting quickly, Edwards bats it out of the Perp's hand. THE WEAPON smashes into the stone wall surrounding Central Park and SHATTERS into a million pieces.
EDWARDS: What the. WHOMP! The Perp kicks him in the nuts, then scrambles to his feet and takes off again. Edwards staggers after him, in pain. The Perp leaps over a moving car, towards the GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM. Edwards tries to follow, but a bus pulls in front of him. After it passes, the Perp is gone.
EDWARDS: The Perp SCREAMS inhumanly and panics. He backpedals, toward the edge of the roof.
PERP: He's coming! He's coming because I failed, and now he'll kill me too!
EDWARDS: You don't understand. Your world is gonna But the Perp has backed right into the edge of the roof, and now he starts to fall over. The Perp blinks.
PERP: You don't understand. Your world is gonna But the Perp has backed right into the edge of the roof, and now he starts to fall over. The Perp blinks.
EDWARDS: What are you?! The Perp looks down. He decides. and he falls, SCREAMING, to his death.
INSPECTOR: Perpetrator then blinked two sets of eyelids. You mean blinked with both eyes?
EDWARDS: No, sir. He blinked once with one set, then again with another completely different set.
SERGEANT: Sort of a low beam, high beam.
INSPECTOR: Was that before or after he drew the weapon which you claim evaporated into a million After, sir.
EDWARDS: After, sir.
INSPECTOR: And why do you suppose none of the other officers saw either of these two events?
EDWARDS: 'Cause some of the other officers are a little soggy in the midsection. And they couldn't keep up, sir.
SERGEANT: Hey, Edwards, if you were half the man I What do you mean? I am half the man you are.
EDWARDS: What do you mean? I am half the man you are.
SERGEANT: What the hell is your problem?
EDWARDS: My problem is you being all up in my damn face all the time.
SERGEANT: I think he threw him off the roof. Ten minutes your best shot.
INSPECTOR: ( cutting off the Sergeant ) Sergeant. I want to talk to you outside. You need ten minutes on a Stairmaster, you pudgy bastard.
EDWARDS: You need ten minutes on a Stairmaster, you pudgy bastard.
LAUREL: Laurel Weaver. Deputy Medical Examiner. I believe you. I opened him up. Find me at the morgue. On 26th. I'll tell you what I Hey.Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
EDWARDS: Hey.Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
LAUREL: ( turning at the door ) You have really pretty eyes. She hurries to turn the corner, but is STOPPED by someone who remains just Dr. Weaver, from the coroner's office? Working on the John Doe? Edwards twists in his chair, to get a better look. All he sees is Laurel, facing whoever it is in the hallway.
LAUREL: Yes. That's right.
KAY: Some night, huh?
EDWARDS: Oh, yeah, some night. He crosses to the door.
KAY: They were gills. Edwards stops.
KAY: Not eyelids.
EDWARDS: Who are you?
KAY: Did he say anything to you?
EDWARDS: ( scoffing ) Yeah, sure. He said the world was coming to an end.
KAY: Did he say when?
EDWARDS: You're kidding, right?
KAY: Would you recognize his weapon if you saw it again?
EDWARDS: Let's take a ride.
KAY: Let's take a ride.
EDWARDS: Wait a minute. I got a ton of paperwork.
KAY: It's all done. At that point, the INSPECTOR sticks his head in, smiles and gives Edwards the thumbs up.
INSPECTOR: Good work, Edwards. Edwards looks at the Inspector, then at Kay. As they leave.
KAY: You ran that guy down on foot? That's tough. That's double tough.
EDWARDS: So who you with? Kay says nothing.
CIA?: Kay remains utterly silent.
KAY: Nothing is what it seems, kid.
EDWARDS: Oh, yeah, my bad '86 Ford LTD. That's a luxury ride. C'mon, who ya with? Kay pulls the car to a stop.
KAY: I'm part of a secret organization that monitors and polices alien activity on earth. Kay opens the door and gets out of the car. Edwards follows.
EDWARDS: This is where we're going? They get out of the car.
KAY: All right, you think it's worth shaking him up, fine. I'll do my thing. Then I want some Do your "thing," kid. Edwards goes inside.
EDWARDS: All right, you think it's worth shaking him up, fine. I'll do my thing. Then I want some Do your "thing," kid. Edwards goes inside.
KAY: Do your "thing," kid. Edwards goes inside.
JEEBS: Officer Edwards. Oh, hey, geez, how'd these get here? I thought I turned 'em in to the proper authorities. He casually brushes some Rolexes off the counter.
EDWARDS: Way I hear it, Jeebs, you into something a little hotter than some stolen Rolexes.
JEEBS: Sure I'm a big crack dealer now. I just work here because I love the hours. This pisses Edwards off. He grabs Jeebs by the collar.
EDWARDS: ( getting angry ) I'm talking about guns, Jeebs. High-tech C'mon, Edwards, whatcha see is what I got.
JEEBS: C'mon, Edwards, whatcha see is what I got.
JEEBS: H-hiya Kay, how are you?
KAY: The imports, Jeebs. Now.
JEEBS: You know I got outta that business a long time ago, Kay.
KAY: Why do you lie to me? I hate it when you He pulls his own gun and aims it at Jeebs' forehead.
JEEBS: Whoa, whoa, Kay, hold on a minute here.
KAY: I'm going to count to three. Edwards, seeing that Kay is getting somewhere, joins in the routine.
EDWARDS: He'll do it, Jeebs.
KAY: I've seen him do it.
EDWARDS: I've seen him do it.
KAY: Talk to me, Jeebs, he's crazy when he's like this.
EDWARDS: Talk to me, Jeebs, he's crazy when he's like this.
JEEBS: He's always crazy. Take a cruise. Get a massage
KAY: KA-BOOM! Kay blows Jeebs' head off and Jeebs' body collapses to the floor. Edwards is shocked. Edwards pulls his own weapon and points it at Kay's head.
EDWARDS: Put down the gun and put your hands on the I warned him.
KAY: I warned him.
EDWARDS: Drop the weapon!
KAY: You warned him.
EDWARDS: You are under arrest. You have the right to remain silent.
KAY: Will you relax?
KAY: Show us what you got, Jeebs. Or I'll use up another one. Jeebs, panicked, hits a button on the underside of the counter, which promptly flips over, revealing yet another dusty shelf, piled high with but this is all alien junk. Weapons, mostly, bizarre, otherworldly weapons of all shapes and sizes.
KAY: Edwards, still dazed by Jeebs' regrown head, glances down at all the Kay looks at Jeebs, pissed off.
EDWARDS: Uh, this. This is what I saw. Kay looks at Jeebs, pissed off.
KAY: You sold a carbonizer with implosion capacity to an unlicensed cephlapoid.
JEEBS: He looked all right to me.
KAY: A carbonizer is an assassin's weapon, Jeebs. Who was the target?
JEEBS: I don't know. Kay raises the weapon again, threatening.
KAY: I don't know! Kay lowers his gun, gestures to the shelf full of weapons.
JEEBS: I don't know! Kay lowers his gun, gestures to the shelf full of weapons.
KAY: This is all confiscated. All of it. I want you on the next transport off this rock. Or I'll shoot you where it doesn't grow back. Jeebs nods, point taken. Kay leaves.
EDWARDS: Yeah. I'll be by tomorrow for those Rolexes. Shaken, Edwards follows.
EDWARDS: The eyelids, fine . and the jumping thing . and the gun . okay, but the head?
KAY: Searching for a handle on the moment here? A place to file all this.
EDWARDS: See a head doesn't do that, it doesn't just grow back. What's going on?
KAY: Can't help you, kid. Only comfort I can offer is that tomorrow, you won't remember a thing.
EDWARDS: Oh, no. This I'm gonna remember for a long, long time. Kay pulls the neuralyzer from his pocket. He hesitates for the briefest of moments as if this particular neuralyzation is different than all the Then he puts on his sunglasses.
KAY: Ever see one of these?
KAY: ( finishing a joke ) and the wife says yeah, Harry, I know, but this one's eating my popcorn! He busts out laughing. Edwards, across from him, is completely disoriented. He looks down. There's a half-eaten order of broccoli beef and several empty bottles of beer on the table in front of him.
EDWARDS: Kay checks his watch.
KAY: Whoops. Gotta run. Thanks for the egg rolls.
EDWARDS: Where am I?
KAY: See what I mean about tequila? You're a bright young man, James. Just lay off the sauce. I'll see you tomorrow, nine a.m. He turns and walks out. Edwards checks his watch. A WAITRESS appears.
WAITRESS: Another beer?
EDWARDS: Coffee. Please. She walks off. Edwards looks at the table. There is a business card lying next to his plate, on which Kay has handwritten "James D. Edwards, Saturday, 9 a.m., 504 Battery Drive." Edwards looks at it, puzzled. He turns the card over and looks at the other side. There's not much there, no name, no phone or fax number, no e-mail address. Just three little letters, dead in the middle of the card:
MIB: CUT TO: EXT. FARMHOUSE - NIGHT A lonely farmhouse stands amid the fields of upstate New York farm country. Several lights are on and through a window we can see the silhouette of a MAN sitting at the kitchen table, the silhouette of a WOMAN hovering over him, bringing things to him. The Man ( EDGAR ) waves his arms, ranting.
EDGAR: He walks to the truck and touches the door handle. Hot. Using his shirt tail, he opens the door and peers down into the hole. IN THE HOLE, he sees a smooth curve of metal and a few blinking lights. Embedded into the ground is, indeed, a spaceship, maybe eight feet across. BEATRICE calls from behind him, standing in the doorway fearfully.
BEATRICE: What is it, Edgar?!
EDGAR: ( turns to her ) Get your big butt back in that house! Beatrice does as she's told, closing the door behind her. Edgar turns back to the smoldering rock, raising his shotgun in defense. AN OTHERWORLDLY VOICE comes from deep in the hole.
EDGAR: You can have my gun when you pry it from my cold, dead fingers! There is a pause while the voice thinks about this offer. Finally, it responds, in a voice and cadence remarkably similar to Edgar's.
BEATRICE: What on earth was it?! He looks at her strangely. When he speaks, his voice is different than before. More refined.
EDGAR: Pause. She looks out the window, at the smoking truck.
BEATRICE: I've never seen sugar do that.
EDGAR: Give me sugar. Puzzled, Beatrice gets up, goes to the cabinet, and grabs a bag of sugar. She holds it out to him.
BEATRICE: Edgar, your skin! It's it's just hanging off your bones! Edgar drops the glass and looks in a window, to catch his reflection. He reaches up and twists his whole face, as if adjusting a ski mask, then tucks the skin of his neck back into his shirt collar. He looks at her.
EDGAR: That better? Beatrice faints.
GUARD: Help you?
EDWARDS: Maybe, I'm not sure, see, I got this card
GUARD: Elevator. Push the "call" button. And he goes back to his comic book. Edwards, maybe out of nothing more than curiosity at this point, walks across the room, toward the elevator. As he draws close, the elevator doors WHOOSH open, expecting him.
ZED: You're late. Sit down. Edwards takes the remaining chair. The elevator doors slide shut. Zed continues addressing the Recruits.
EDWARDS: Why, uh I'm sorry, it's just no one really asked this, but why, exactly, are we doing this? Silence. Then one of the young recruits eagerly raises his hand. Zed calls on him.
ZED: AMBITIOUS RECRUIT ( loud and formal ) Jake Jensen, West Point, graduate with honors. We're here because you're looking for the best of the best of the best, sir! Edwards tries to stifle a laugh, but can't.
AMBITIOUS RECRUIT: ( loud and formal ) Jake Jensen, West Point, graduate with honors. We're here because you're looking for the best of the best of the best, sir! Edwards tries to stifle a laugh, but can't.
ZED: What's so funny, Edwards?
EDWARDS: I I don't know, sir. This guy. "Best of the best of the best of the best of the " It just struck me as Humorous. Sir. Short pause. Then Zed continues.
ZED: Okay. Let's get going.
EDWARDS: Anyone, uh.any of you guys know what we're doing here?
MARINE: ( clipped, unquestioning ) Looking for the best of the best of the best.
EDWARDS: ( can't help but smile ) Well, yeah, I know, but. And then .. suddenly The two far walls pull apart. The whole room pulsates and the air is suddenly filled with a bewildering swirl of stroboscopic images, both human and alien. Everywhere is color, light and movement a holographic mass of strange shapes and characters moving simultaneously. The Recruits lunge for the weapons, snapping them up and taking aim. SIX SHOTS are fired at once. And then, a second later, a SEVENTH SHOT is fired. Everyone sort of looks at Edwards, who puts his gun down last. There's an awkward silence. Then the door opens. Light pours in, and ZED with it. Even the highly competitive cadets can't help but feel some sympathy as Zed walks straight to Edwards.
ZED: The hell happened?
EDWARDS: Hesitated, sir. Zed looks into the gallery. Most obvious in the frozen tableau of creatures is a lunging, snarling beast, which has three bullet holes in its chest. Next to it is a massively deformed humanoid creature with a large hook for a head, which also has three holes in it. In the back corner of the gallery, there is a single bullet hole in a pretty eight-year-old girl.
ZED: May I ask why you felt little Tiffany deserved to die?
EDWARDS: She was the only one who actually seemed dangerous. At the time.
ZED: And how did you come to that conclusion?
EDWARDS: Hook-head guy. You explain to me how he can think with a hook for a head. Answer; it's not his head. His head is that butt-ugly bean-bag thing over there. 'Cause if you look at the snarling beast-guy, he's not snarling, he's sneezing he's got tissues in his hand. No threat there, and anyhow, the girl's books were way too advanced for an eight-year-old's. And besides, from where I'm looking, she was the only one who appeared to have a motive. And I don't appreciate your jumping down my throat about Sideways glances from the other recruits. Zed sighs.
ZED: He's got a real problem with authority.
KAY: So do I. The guy ran down a cephlapoid, Zed. On foot. Tenacity. That I can use.
ZED: I hope you know what you're doing. Zed turns and walks away. Kay stares through the glass, at EDWARDS, who stands alone on one side of the room, apart from the rest of the group. Zed reappears on the other side of the glass, coming through a door and into the shooting gallery. As he talks, Kay turns and walks off.
EDWARDS: You! Hey, what's goin' on? The other recruits continue down the hall with Zed. Kay doesn't answer, just gestures to Edwards to follow him down the hall, which he does.
KAY: Back in the mid-fifties, the government started a little underfunded agency with the simple and laughable purpose of making contact with a race not of this planet. As they pass an alcove, Edwards notices the six other Recruits, who have been herded into a corner. Zed, addressing them, pulls a neuralyzer from his pocket.
ZED: Now, if you'll look directly at the end of this device. He holds a neuralyzer up in front of them, and the Recruits stare obediently at it as Zed slips on a pair of black sunglasses. Edwards stares, fascinated, but Kay's hand reaches in and yanks him away, just as Zed's neuralyzer FLASHES WHITE.
KAY: Everybody thought the agency was a joke. Except the aliens. They made contact on March 2nd, 1961, outside New York City. Another photograph, a grainy black and white image of two ships hovering in the night sky classic flying saucer shapes.
EDWARDS: You brought the aliens flowers? Kay steers Edwards to the right, down another corridor, just as long as the first.
KAY: They were intergalactic refugees with a simple request. Let us use the earth as an apolitical zone for people without a planet. Ever see "Casablanca?" Same thing, no Nazis. We agreed. So we masked all evidence of their landing. Another picture, this one of the 1964 World's Fair grounds, still under construction. Giant models of rockets mark the Fair's theme of space travel; most prominent in the construction are two tall towers, with the flying saucers now mounted at the top of each.
EDWARDS: The 1964 World's Fair was a coverup?
KAY: Why else would we hold it in Queens? Now left. More nonhumans arrive every year. They live among us, in secret.
EDWARDS: I see. Not to change the subject, but when was your last cat-scan?
KAY: Every six months; it's company policy.
EDWARDS: Well, thanks for the very amusing morning, but I'm hopin' you'll show me where I came in? 'Cause this is where I go out. They have stopped next to an unmarked door. Kay throws it open and steps Yeah, sure, hang on, I wanna grab a coffee while we're right here. As Kay walks into the kitchenette, Edwards' jaw drops, his eyes widen, and he stares in wonderment at THREE WORM-LIKE ALIENS standing around a water cooler. Tall, impossibly thin, most certainly not from New York, the aliens hold an animated conversation in a language that seems like a combination of Esperanto and microphone feedback.
KAY: Yeah, sure, hang on, I wanna grab a coffee while we're right here. As Kay walks into the kitchenette, Edwards' jaw drops, his eyes widen, and he stares in wonderment at THREE WORM-LIKE ALIENS standing around a water cooler. Tall, impossibly thin, most certainly not from New York, the aliens hold an animated conversation in a language that seems like a combination of Esperanto and microphone feedback.
KAY: Any given time, around fifteen hundred landed aliens are on the planet, the majority right here in Manhattan. Most aliens are decent enough, just trying to make a living.
EDWARDS: Cab drivers?
KAY: Not as many as you'd think. Humans, for the most part, don't have a clue. Don't want one, either. They're happy. They think they've got a pretty good bead on things.
EDWARDS: Why the big secret? People are smart, they can handle it.
KAY: A person is smart. People are dumb. Everything they've ever "known" has been proven to be wrong. A thousand years ago everybody knew as a fact, that the earth was the center of the universe. Five hundred years ago, they knew it was flat. Fifteen minutes ago, you knew we humans were alone on it. Imagine what you'll know So what's the catch?
EDWARDS: So what's the catch?
KAY: What you'll gain in perspective, you'll lose in ways you're too young to comprehend. You give up everything. Sever every human contact. No one will know you exist. Ever.
EDWARDS: You're not even allowed a favorite shirt. There. That's the speech I never heard. That's the choice I never got.
KAY: You're not even allowed a favorite shirt. There. That's the speech I never heard. That's the choice I never got.
EDWARDS: Hold up. You track me down, put me through those stupid-ass tests, now you're trying to talk me out of it. I don't get it.
KAY: You got 'til sun-up.
EDWARDS: Is it worth it?
KAY: You find out, you let me know.
ORKIN MAN: Well, well, well. Movin' right in, are we? Think we own the place? He unfurls a hose from the side of the tank.
ORKIN MAN: ( shrugs ) Takin' care of your pest problem.
EDGAR: "Pest" problem? "Pest?"
ORKIN MAN: Yeah. You got a hell of an infestation. Edgar advances on him, slowly.
EDGAR: You know, I have noticed an infestation here. Everywhere I look, in fact. Nothing but undeveloped, unevolved, barely conscious pond scum. So convinced of their own superiority as they scurry about their short, pointless lives.
ORKIN MAN: Well yeah. Don't you want to get rid of In the worst way. Edgar lashes out quickly, jerking the mask off the Orkin Man's face with one hand and shoving the gas hose down his throat with the other. THE ORKIN MAN'S CAR KEYS drop to the garage floor, and Edgar picks them EXT. GARAGE - DAY A six-by-ten sheet of plywood THUDS to the driveway outside the garage. EDGAR raises one end of it so it's hanging off the back end of the Orkin man's van now it's a ramp. He walks off and we hear that familiar SCRAPING sound again. Edgar, GRUNTING with the effort, slowly pushes his spaceship up the ramp and into the back of the Orkin truck.
EDGAR: In the worst way. Edgar lashes out quickly, jerking the mask off the Orkin Man's face with one hand and shoving the gas hose down his throat with the other. THE ORKIN MAN'S CAR KEYS drop to the garage floor, and Edgar picks them EXT. GARAGE - DAY A six-by-ten sheet of plywood THUDS to the driveway outside the garage. EDGAR raises one end of it so it's hanging off the back end of the Orkin man's van now it's a ramp. He walks off and we hear that familiar SCRAPING sound again. Edgar, GRUNTING with the effort, slowly pushes his spaceship up the ramp and into the back of the Orkin truck.
EDWARDS: One thing you gotta know right now. Edwards walks briskly forward and gets in the elevator with Kay.
EDWARDS: All right. I'm in because there's some next-level shit going on around here, and I'm with that. Before you beam me up, there are a couple of things we need to get straight. You chose me 'cause you recognize the skills. So as of now you can cease with all of that calling me "son" or "kid" or "sport." Cool?
KAY: Cool, slick. Now about those skills of yours, The elevator doors
KAY: As of this moment, they don't mean much. It's unlike anything we've ever seen huge, multileveled, of sixties design, polished steel and glass. The workplaces are sleek and uncluttered, manned by both HUMANS and ALIENS. Most of the Aliens stay in the background, like the UPSIDE-DOWN GUY who walks on the ceiling, shuffling papers. KAY and EDWARDS step off the elevator and onto a platform that looks out over the whole place. Kay leads him down into the complex. First, they walk past a sort of passport control center, where a human BUREAUCRAT at a desk is checking the documents of a line of ALIENS who've just arrived. There are a dozen bizarre life forms in that line, CHATTING in half a dozen different alien Edwards slows as they pass, listening to the PASSPORT CONTROL OFFICER as he addresses an ARQUILLIAN, a large, humanoid visitor.
PASSPORT OFFICER: Purpose of trip?
ARQUILLIAN: Diplomatic mission.
PASSPORT OFFICER: Duration of stay?
ARQUILLIAN: PASSPORT OFFICER Carrying any fruits or vegetables? Edwards just stares, fascinated, but Kay grabs him by the arm and hurries him along.
PASSPORT OFFICER: Carrying any fruits or vegetables? Edwards just stares, fascinated, but Kay grabs him by the arm and hurries him along.
KAY: Let's go. He's a little.grouchy. Kay moves him into the central hall.
KAY: A couple of hours wait after a 17-light-year flight would get on anybody's nerves.
EDWARDS: What branch of the government do we report None. They started asking too many questions.
KAY: None. They started asking too many questions.
EDWARDS: So who pays for all this?
KAY: Oh, we hold a few patents on gadgets we confiscated from our out-of-state visitors. Velcro. Microwave Ovens. Liposuction. AT A STORAGE CAGE, Kay turns a key in the lock of a caged-in area and throws the door open. Inside, there are piles of sophisticated-looking devices stacked on shelves and tabletops.
KAY: ( picking something up ) Here. A new recording device to replace CD's. So now I gotta buy the White Album ( something else ) This is amusing. Universal translator. He holds up a cylindrical metal tube and a small wire clip that looks like a lapel microphone.
EDWARDS: What's this?
EDWARDS: ON THE MAIN FLOOR, they walk briskly across the room, reaching a giant screen on the far wall.
KAY: Observation, the heart of our little The screen displays a map of the world on which thousands of tiny lights blink in all parts of the globe, log lines of data flashing next to them.
EDWARDS: I gotta be honest about something.
KAY: It makes no sense?
EDWARDS: It makes perfect sense. When I was a third grader in Philadelphia, they told me I was crazy 'cause I swore that our teacher was from, like, Venus or something.
KAY: Mrs. Edelson. Edwards, stunned, looks at Kay as 4-Eyes boots her onto the screen: Mean face, cat glasses. Bony fingers. Extremely well-hidden tail.
KAY: Jupiter, actually. Well, one of the moons. With their remaining arms, they punch button after button on the enormous console. ZED, who was standing up close to the screen, walks over to Edwards, sizing him up.
ZED: What's your jacket size, Edwards?
EDWARDS: Uh forty regular.
ZED: Then let's put it on.
EDWARDS: Put what on?
ZED: The last suit you'll ever wear.
"JAMES." "JAM.": ZED ( O.S. ) You are no longer part of "the system." We're above the system. Over it. Beyond it. Feet slip into black shoes. A belt is buckled. A tie pushed up.
JAY: The difference between you and me? He slips on the sunglasses.
ZED: Okay, let's see. Bee, we got the deposed sur-prefect of Sinalee touching down in the forest outside Portland tonight. I'm pulling you down from Anchorage to do a meet-and-greet. BEE, an agent on one of the monitors, nods.
BEE: You wish. Bring a sponge. What else everybody, we gotta keep Rolling Fish-Goat out of the sewer system, he's scaring the rats. And Bobo the Squat wants to reveal himself on "Unsolved Mysteries." Bee, make sure he doesn't. He turns a page, coming across a red memo.
ZED: You wish. Bring a sponge. What else everybody, we gotta keep Rolling Fish-Goat out of the sewer system, he's scaring the rats. And Bobo the Squat wants to reveal himself on "Unsolved Mysteries." Bee, make sure he doesn't. He turns a page, coming across a red memo.
ZED: Well, well, well we got a skimmer.
KAY: ( to Jay ) Landed alien out of zone. ( to Zed ) Who is it?
ZED: Redgick. He's not cleared to leave Manhattan but he's way out of town right now, stuck in traffic on the New Jersey Turnpike. Why don't you take Jay? This is a good one for him to warm up on.
JAY: Yo, wussup with Zed? "Go get em, tiger. We're not hosting an intergalactic kegger."
KAY: Zed was saving the world before you were born, son. Show some respect. An MIB MECHANIC pulls up in Kay's black LTD and hops out, leaving the door open. Jay sizes up the car.
JAY: We got the use of unlimited technology from the entire universe and we cruise around in Kay glares at Jay. He's getting annoyed.
KAY: Seat belt.
JAY: You know, ya'll gotta learn how to talk to people. You could be a little kinder and Kay grits his teeth.
KAY: Buckle up, please.
JAY: Now did that hurt? Kay shifts the car into reverse. The awesome power of the car kicks in and Jay sails forward, THWACKING into the dash. Kay shifts into forward and taps the gas, SLAMMING Jay back into his seat.
KAY: Makin' fun of my ride. A LIGHTED PANEL rotates into place between the two front seats. Jay's hand falls by accident on a flashing red button in the panel.
KAY: Jay. The button?
JAY: Never push the button, Jay. Jay jerks his hand away.
KAY: Never push the button, Jay. Jay jerks his hand away.
KAY: License and registration, please. The Driver hands over some documents. Kay flips through them.
REDGICK: It's my wife! She's she's well, look! Kay leans down and looks in the window. MRS. REDGICK is in front, MOANING in pain, holding her swollen belly. Kay straightens up, fast.
KAY: Oh God. How soon? Mrs. Redgick SCREAMS in pain. Real soon. For the first time since we've seen him, Kay is nervous.
JAY: Sure, it's easy, you just sorta catch. Mrs. Redgick SCREAMS again. Redgick gets out of the car, worried.
KAY: Sure, it's easy, you just sorta catch. Mrs. Redgick SCREAMS again. Redgick gets out of the car, worried.
REDGICK: Are you sure he knows what he's doing?
KAY: Yeah, hell, sure, he does this all the time. C'mon, let him work, Redgick, I wanna ask you something. Kay gives Jay a supportive SLAP on the back and leads Redgick away, to the rear of the car. Jay stays in the background and opens the rear door, tentatively. He leans down, into the car.
JAY: Oh God! I see it I see it I see it! A few yards from the car, Kay turns Redgick to face him.
KAY: Croagg the Midwife's back on 64th and 8th. You were headed out of town.
REDGICK: Well, we're, uh meeting someone. Suddenly a TENTACLE whips out from between Mrs. Redgick's legs, CRACKS the whip once, and wraps around the door post, grabbing hold.
JAY: Oh sweet Jesus Mother of God did you see So? Who you meeting?
KAY: ( still to Redgick ) So? Who you meeting?
REDGICK: Well, it's a ship.
KAY: Really? I didn't see a departure clearance for today.
REDGICK: You didn't? Uh, well it was an emergency. Now a SECOND TENTACLE whips out, but this one wraps around Jay's neck and pulls tight. He GASPS, choking.
JAY: Guys guys
KAY: Doin' fine, Ace. What kind of emergency? What's the rush to get off the planet all of a sudden?
JAY: ( choking to death ) Help?! HELP! Hello?! He starts tugging for all he's worth, but the fight is sort of going against him, as the tentacles pull him in even harder than he tries to pull the baby out.
REDGICK: We just don't like the neighborhood anymore. Some of the new arrivals. Redgick looks at Kay, clearly concealing something, but darts his eyes What new arrivals? This have anything to do with the crasher from last night?
KAY: What new arrivals? This have anything to do with the crasher from last night?
JAY: ( Screaming ) Can you guys do this later?! But in that moment, Jay finally gets a foot up on the door frame, acquires leverage, and RIPS the baby free. He falls, flat on his back in the dirt, the multi-tentacled lizardlike baby resting squarely on his chest.
KAY: Congratulations! It's a lizard. Jay looks down at the creature COOING and nestling on his chest.
JAY: ( misty ) Hey, you know, it is sorta It vomits on him.
KAY: Anything about that seem unusual to you? Jay just looks at him, very Jack Benny.
JAY: What kind of "new arrival" would scare Redgick so bad that he'd risk a warp jump with a newborn? Let's check the hot sheets.
KAY: What kind of "new arrival" would scare Redgick so bad that he'd risk a warp jump with a newborn? Let's check the hot sheets.
JAY: These are the hot sheets? Kay pulls a copy of the Weekly World News from the stand and gives the guy a buck.
KAY: Best damn investigative reporting on the planet. But hey, go ahead, read the New York Times if you want. They get lucky You're actually looking for tips in a supermarket tabloid?
JAY: You're actually looking for tips in a supermarket tabloid?
KAY: Not looking for. Found. He SMACKS the paper down on the hood in front of Jay, the pages turned open to a headline in typeface so large one would think it reserved for the Second Coming:
KAY: Not so fast. Walk up slow.
JAY: Part of the routine. Makes it look like we're sizing up the situation. Gives her time to get the wrong impression. BEATRICE appears in the door to the house, curious.
KAY: Part of the routine. Makes it look like we're sizing up the situation. Gives her time to get the wrong impression. BEATRICE appears in the door to the house, curious.
BEATRICE: Can I help you gentlemen? Beatrice looks much better than the last time we saw her more nicely dressed, a touch of makeup, a smile on her face. Kay pulls a black card from his wallet and extends it to her as she draws close. As she reaches for it, the card reforms into an FBI badge.
KAY: How do you do, ma'am, I'm Special Agent Manheim, this is Agent Black, FBI. Had a few questions about your visitor.
BEATRICE: Are you here to make fun of me too?
KAY: No ma'am. We at the FBI don't have a sense of humor that we're aware of. Mind if we come in?
BEATRICE: Sure. Lemonade?
BEATRICE: And they said to me, "If he was murdered, how could he walk back in the house?" And I must admit, I was a little stumped by that one. But I know Edgar. And that wasn't him. It was more like something else that was wearing him. Like a suit. An Edgar suit. A little GIGGLE escapes her at the thought. Jay, over by a bookcase, notices a framed PHOTO OF EDGAR, kneeling in the woods, proudly about to skin a deer.
JAY: Damn. If he was this ugly before he was an Go on.
BEATRICE: Go on.
KAY: Go on.
BEATRICE: Anyway, when I came to, he was gone.
KAY: Did he say anything?
BEATRICE: Yes! He asked for water. Sugar water, if I Sugar water.
KAY: Sugar water.
JAY: Did you taste her lemonade? Kay nods, puts on his sunglasses. Takes out another pair, hands them to Kay draws his neuralyzer. FLASH! Beatrice freezes, staring straight ahead as if hypnotized. Kay takes Jay's glasses off and hands them back to him.
KAY: Ray Bans. Okay, Beatrice. There was no alien, and the flash of light you saw in the sky wasn't a UFO. Swamp gas from a weather balloon was trapped in a thermal pocket and refracted the light from Venus
JAY: Whoa! That thing erases her memory, and you give her a new one?
KAY: Standard issue neuralyzer.
JAY: And that's the best you can come up with?
KAY: On a more personal note, Beatrice, Edgar ran off with on old girlfriend. Go stay at your mother's for a few days and get over it. Decide you're better off.
JAY: ( butting in ) Yeah, and you're better off 'cause he never appreciated you anyway. In fact, you kicked him out, and now that he's gone, you ought to buy some new clothes, maybe hire a decorator or something.
JAY: ( from up outside the hole ) Hey. Kay.when am I gonna get one of those memory things? The spectral analyzer turns blue.
KAY: When you're ready. Please not green. Purple. And then green. Kay closes his eyes and sits back, leaning against the dirt. Above him, JAY leans over, staring down. Kay looks up at him.
JAY: Wait don't tell me that was the question on Final Jeopardy last night. AT THE CAR, Kay snatches up the radio handset and keys the microphone.
KAY: ( softly, into mic ) Zed, we have a bug. He turns off the radio and sighs. Jay stands next to him.
JAY: I'm gonna jump way past you and just guess that this is bad. Right?
KAY: Bugs thrive on carnage, Tiger. They consume, infest and destroy. They live off the death and decay of other species.
JAY: So basically you have a racial problem with all insect-based life forms?
KAY: Listen, kid imagine a giant cockroach five times smarter than Albert Einstein, four times stronger than an ox, nine times meaner than hell, strutting his stuff around Manhattan Island in his brand new Edgar suit. Does that sound like fun?
JAY: What do we do?
KAY: With a bug in town? Watch the morgues.
ROSENBERG: Sorry I'm late. The cab drivers on this planet are terrible.
ARQUILLIAN: Your majesty, you are in grave danger.
ROSENBERG: Yeah, and they overcharge you every time.
ARQUILLIAN: Sir, a bug landed here. We must get you off the planet.
ROSENBERG: A bug? He must know why I'm here.
ARQUILLIAN: We think he does. Is that what I think it is?
ROSENBERG: No, just some diamonds for your children. Do we have time to eat? The Arquillian relaxes.
ARQUILLIAN: Sure. I ordered you some pirogi.
COOK: Table six is up! and turns away, back to the grill. A HAND reaches in, takes the plates, and sets them on a tray. We follow the tray, but see only the right arm and aproned midsection of the waiter carrying it. He carries the tray along the counter toward a pair of swinging doors that lead out into the restaurant. The doors swing in as another WAITER sweeps into the kitchen, and our waiter heads out into the dining area. As the doors swing closed behind him, they reveal storage shelves crammed with bags of rice, cans of stewed and a DEAD WAITER, literally folded in half and stuffed in among the INT. LESHKO'S DINER - DAY ROSENBERG and the ARQUILLIAN raise their glasses in a toast.
ARQUILLIAN: To the continued reign of the Arquillian To the safety of the galaxy. They CLINK glasses and drink, just as the Waiter arrives. Still, we see only his arms and midsection as he sets the tray on a stand and lifts the plates of pirogi. He carries them to the table and sets them down. Rosenberg, setting his glass down next to the plate, catches a glimpse of the Waiter's hand just as an enormous silverfish bug slithers out of the waiter's sleeve and scurries across the table. The glass slips out of Rosenberg's hand, dumping wine all over the table. He looks up, slowly, and sees the Waiter's face. It's EDGAR. Another half dozen insects of all variety tumble out of Edgar's sleeves and scurry across the table. Rosenberg and the Arquillian freeze, paralyzed with fear. They seem to know what dire implications Edgar's presence holds.
ROSENBERG: To the safety of the galaxy. They CLINK glasses and drink, just as the Waiter arrives. Still, we see only his arms and midsection as he sets the tray on a stand and lifts the plates of pirogi. He carries them to the table and sets them down. Rosenberg, setting his glass down next to the plate, catches a glimpse of the Waiter's hand just as an enormous silverfish bug slithers out of the waiter's sleeve and scurries across the table. The glass slips out of Rosenberg's hand, dumping wine all over the table. He looks up, slowly, and sees the Waiter's face. It's EDGAR. Another half dozen insects of all variety tumble out of Edgar's sleeves and scurry across the table. Rosenberg and the Arquillian freeze, paralyzed with fear. They seem to know what dire implications Edgar's presence holds.
ROSENBERG: ( in English again ) You can kill us both but you will not find it. Edgar smiles.
EDGAR: You're right about one thing. Suddenly a long STINGER whips out from under the back of Edgar's apron and zips under the table. First Rosenberg and then the Arquillian lurch forward their chairs, their faces contorting in pain. They both pitch forward, their faces slogging into fresh pirogi. The stinger SNAPS out from under the table and whips back under Edgar's apron. He moves quickly, searching their pockets, but he doesn't find what he's looking for. The cat, still perched on top of the ornate box, HISSES at him. Edgar reaches out and BATS the cat away with one vicious swipe of his hand. The animal HOWLS and flies across the room, landing in a WOMAN's The Woman SCREAMS. Now other DINERS' attention is drawn to Edgar's table, where two obviously dead men are being robbed by a waiter. There are SHOUTS of outrage, a few MEN rise out of their seats. Edgar grabs the ornate box and tries to open it, but finds it locked. With the furor rising around him, he shoves the box under one arm and bolts for the door. Rosenberg's cat leaps back onto the table and SNARLS at him as he goes.
COP: What am I supposed to do with the cat?
INSPECTOR: I don't know. Send it with the stiff. Let family claim it. The Cop nods and follows the stretcher with Rosenberg's body into the back of one of the ambulances, allowing the cat to ride on the chest of its dead owner for the time being. The doors of the wagon SLAM shut.
COP: Where do you want contestant number three? The coroner turns around. It's DR. LAUREL WEAVER, the woman who tried to speak to Jay before. She sighs and waves a hand.
LAUREL: By the wall, I guess. What's with the cat?
COP: Oh, the cat. There's a problem with the cat. Sign here. Laurel signs his clipboard.
LAUREL: What's the problem with the cat?
COP: Your problem. Laurel gives him a dirty look, but he laughs and leaves. She goes over to the stretcher and bends down, petting Rosenberg's cat gently.
LAUREL: Are you having a bad day, baby? Cheer up. His is worse. She sets the cat aside and wheels the stretcher under the lights.
LAUREL: Oh, my God.
LAUREL: ( into recorder ) .approximately 112 degrees at time of autopsy, indicating, quite impossibly, a post-mortem increase in body temperature. Examiner attempted to verify result rectally, only to find subject was, uh, without rectum. Which can only be described as.well.as really.
LAUREL: Yeah, well whoever you are, I'm afraid I'm going to need to see some ID. He hands her his CARTE NOIR, which changes to read "Dr. Menville, Department of Public Health." She hands it back.
LAUREL: ( checking her watch ) You boys must not have much of a home life.
KAY: We watch the morgues very carefully. You've got something unusual?
LAUREL: I'd say so triple homicide. She gets up and goes to the Arquillian's body, which is still out on a table under the lights.
KAY: I'll have a look at this one. Dr. White, why don't you and Dr. Weaver check out the other body?
LAUREL: This way, Doctor. Jay and Laurel cross the room, to where ROSENBERG's corpse lies out on another gurney.
JAY: I think, uh, we should start at the same place you did.
LAUREL: All right. Jay hears a MEOW and looks down. Rosenberg's cat is rubbing up against his Your cat?
JAY: Your cat?
LAUREL: Guess it is now. Came in with the bodies. She SNAPS one of her rubber gloves and reaches down ( out of frame ), sinking her hands into the body as she moves things aside. Just by the look on Jay's face, one can imagine how disgusting it is. Laurel digs in, up to her elbows. Jay winces. She pulls one bloody glove out, to wipe a strand of hair out of her face. He looks at her and she winks at him. He's surprised. She laughs.
JAY: Thank-you, but is this really the time to uh you know, come on to me?
LAUREL: Hey, just walking the dog. Feel that? Where the piloric junction would Oh, yes. Exactly.
JAY: Oh, yes. Exactly.
LAUREL: Now push that aside. Notice anything strange? Stomach? Liver? Lungs?
JAY: Nope. All fine.
LAUREL: Doctor, they're all missing.
JAY: ( quickly ) Well, of course they are. What I'm pointing out is that there are no pieces of them left. So they're intact, wherever they are. That we can be sure of.
LAUREL: Have we met before? I have the strangest feeling of deja vu.
JAY: You know, I was just going to ask you the same thing. Laurel looks at him sideways, skeptical, but also intrigued. She whispers to him. Confiding in him.
LAUREL: Okay. You wanna know what I really think? But don't tell that guy. He looks like he's already under enough stress. This body is not really a body, but it's actually some sort of transport unit for something else altogether. The question is: Jay just looks at her intrigued.
LAUREL: By the way, stop me if I'm freaking you out.
JAY: No, no.not at all. After a particularly gross GUSHY sound, he looks away, toward her. She's staring at him. Laurel leans over and lowers her voice, just for him.
LAUREL: You know what I like to do sometimes? When it's really late?
JAY: ( freaked out ) From the other side of the room, Kay CLEARS HIS THROAT.
KAY: What do you think?
JAY: ( of Laurel ) Very interesting. Got a real Queen of the Undead thing goin' on.
KAY: Of the body.
JAY: Great body.
KAY: The dead body?
JAY: Not a clue.
KAY: All right. Keep her occupied. Try not to sound too dumb. ACROSS THE MORGUE, Laurel is still examining Rosenberg, now bent down next to his head, carefully studying his left ear. She notices something strange, turns, and calls over her shoulder to Jay.
LAUREL: Dr. White. Jay, in conversation with Kay, does not respond to what is not his name.
DR. WHITE!: Kay nudges Jay.
KAY: You're up, Slugger. Jay turns and races across the room to rejoin her.
LAUREL: Look at this. Jay leans down. There is strange stitching around the base of Rosenberg's What is that? He reaches out, touches the ear, then he actually turns it. With a soft
JAY: What is that? He reaches out, touches the ear, then he actually turns it. With a soft
CLICK: it pulls away from the head. Like a latch. Jay and Laurel look at each other, astonished. Jay pulls again, and Rosenberg's entire face PUSHES OUT with a mechanical HUM, then HINGES OPEN, the whole face rotating out away from the rest of the artificial A TINY LITTLE GREEN MAN SITS INSIDE ROSENBERG'S HEAD. Though not quite dead, the Tiny Little Green Man is gravely wounded. He staggers up out of a small control room inside Rosenberg's head, with gearshifts and viewing screens all around the inside of the skull.
LAUREL: Far freaking out. They lean in closer. The Tiny Little Green Man ( a BALTIAN ) forces words out of his mouth.
BALTIAN: Must to pre prevent contest? No.to prevent
JAY: It's all right What are you trying to say? Struggle?
LAUREL: The Baltian nods vigorously. That's it.
BALTIAN: ( faltering ) Galaxy on or or Orion's ( thinks ) What is word? Be.?
JAY: Bed? Belt? Orion's Belt? The Baltian nods again, falls, and dies. Jay and Laurel look at the little dead alien, then at each other.
LAUREL: "Doctor Whatever"? You're not with the Department of Public Health, are you? Jay shakes his head but is now paying more attention to Kay, as he leads him toward the Little Man.
JAY: He's dead. Kay looks at the mess the body, the little dead man.
KAY: Rosenberg. Damn. Good man.
JAY: You knew him?
KAY: One of the few I actually liked. Exiled High Prince.
LAUREL: I was right this is an alien life form, and you're from some government agency who wants to keep it under wraps. Kay and Jay are not paying attention to Laurel.
JAY: He said "to prevent war, the galaxy is on Orion's Belt."
LAUREL: . This make total sense. How else do you explain New York? The other night I'm in a cab, this guy. FLASH! Without even looking at her, Kay whips out his neuralyzer and blanks her out.
KAY: He said there's a galaxy on Orion's Belt? That makes no sense.
JAY: That's what he said. Didn't he? Right after he Oh, for Christ's sake, you did the flashy thing already.
LAUREL: ( as if awakening ) Uh, hi, whoever you guys are, I'm afraid I'm going to need to see some ID if you're going to be in the morgue, okay?
KAY: Sure thing, sweetheart. Here you go. FLASH! He neuralyzes her again. Jay slaps his hand.
JAY: Stop that
KAY: ( to Laurel, ignoring Jay ) Typical day, too much caffeine, get a life.
JAY: that thing probably gives you brain Never hurt her before.
KAY: Never hurt her before.
JAY: "Never hurt her before"?! How many times have you done the flashy thing to this poor Aren't you worried about, you know, long term damage?
KAY: ( evasive ) Aren't you worried about, you know, long term damage?
JAY: Aren't you worried about, you know, long term damage?
KAY: ( more evasive ) Little bit.
JAY: What the hell happened to make you such a callous son of a bitch?
KAY: I took this job. He heads out. Jay follows.
JAY: Hey, you never flashed me with that thing, did you?
KAY: EXT. MORGUE - NIGHT Jay and Kay exit the morgue and walk towards their car.
JAY: Hey, Kay, I really think I should be in charge of the flashy memory thing Not while I'm around, Slim.
KAY: Not while I'm around, Slim.
JAY: Yeah, well you're a menace with that An MIB containment vehicle pulls up, and four men dressed in black suits get out.
KAY: ( to an MIB Agent ) We've got two dead aliens in there, and a deputy medical coroner in need of a new EXT. NEW YORK ALLEY - NIGHT The Orkin van is parked in an alleyway somewhere downtown. From inside, throaty WAILS of frustration can be heard. Two PASSERSBY hear the racket and hesitate, wondering if they should get involved. But an inhuman GROWL rattles the whole van and they wise up, hurrying on their way.
EDGAR: No. No, NO, NO, NOOOO! He rips the box apart with his bare hands. There's nothing else there.
JAY: Doesn't anybody believe in sleep around The twins keep us on Alpha Centaurian time a 37-hour day. Give it a few months you'll get used to it. Or you'll have a psychotic episode. He points up at the screen with a laser pencil.
ZED: The twins keep us on Alpha Centaurian time a 37-hour day. Give it a few months you'll get used to it. Or you'll have a psychotic episode. He points up at the screen with a laser pencil.
ZED: Here's Orion; the brightest grouping of stars in the northern sky. and here's Orion's belt He indicates the three stars that make up the belt.
JAY: That's what the little guy was talking about, "To prevent war, the galaxy's on Orion's belt."
ZED: There are no galaxies on Orion's belt. The belt is just these three stars; galaxies are huge, made up of billions of stars. You heard wrong.
JAY: You're attracted to me, aren't you? Jay starts to cross over to ANOTHER MONITOR, where Kay is sitting alone, tie loosened, slightly disheveled. On the screen, the word "SEARCHING" blinks, encouraging patience. The image changes to a satellite view of North America, which quickly zooms in on the Southwest. On screen, the satellite view zooms down to Arizona, then a city, then a neighborhood, then a block, then a back yard. The printout changes to
"SUBJECT ACQUIRED.": The image comes into sharp focus on one back yard in particular, where we get a good look at a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN.
JAY: Pretty lady. Kay clicks off the picture of her. Jay drags a chair and sits down.
KAY: It's more than Kay can bear. He reaches out and flicks a switch. The monitor goes blank, except for a data screen:
SUBJECT LOST: him: "Is this me in thirty years?" A moment goes by. Finally:
JAY: Well, it's better to have loved and lost than never to have
KAY: Try it.
KAY: ( quietly, with dread ) They're leaving.
ZED: We've had twelve jumps in the last hour. Redgick was just the beginning.
JAY: What do they know that we don't know? Kay looks to his partner, then to the screen. Another light flickers out.
KAY: Why do rats desert the ship? Go to Lem Sat IV. Put up a forty-field view of Manhattan. ON THE SCREEN New York City is just a bright spot of light on the Eastern coast of the United States.
JAY: And we've got a dead Arquillian prince. A COMMUNICATION STARTS COMING OVER THE SPEAKERS a sound like a cat and mouse caught in a blender.
KAY: Message coming in. The communication continues.
JAY: They sound pissed.
ZED: ( to the twins ) Translate that and step on it! ( to Kay ) Meanwhile get down to Rosenberg's store and see what you can turn up. Kay and Jay walk away.
JAY: I like that.
KAY: Series four de-atomizer. Kay pulls out another weapon, the TINIEST GUN WE'VE EVER SEEN.
JAY: You get a series four de-atomizer and I get a "Noisy Cricket?!" I'm afraid I'm going to break it. Jay follows Kay out, glancing back to see the huge gun turrets on the Arquillian Battle Cruiser HUM and WHIR as they swing around into position, pointed down at the unwitting planet below.
EDGAR: That's my truck!
DRIVER: And make sure you tell them that at the Edgar reaches into the front seat of the van and pulls out his twelve gauge. He points it at the tow truck Driver. The tow truck driver looks at him with disdain, and pulling back his shirt reveals a mean-looking gun.
JAY: Who robs a jewelry store and leaves the Someone who's not looking for jewels. Jay moves behind the counter. On the floor is an ornate, empty bowl and a bag of cat food, next to a scrumptious pillow. There are several PHOTOS OF A CAT on the wall. There is also a pile of BEJEWELED CAT COLLARS. Jay picks up one of the COLLARS, inspects it closely, shaking his head.
KAY: Someone who's not looking for jewels. Jay moves behind the counter. On the floor is an ornate, empty bowl and a bag of cat food, next to a scrumptious pillow. There are several PHOTOS OF A CAT on the wall. There is also a pile of BEJEWELED CAT COLLARS. Jay picks up one of the COLLARS, inspects it closely, shaking his head.
JAY: This guy had a serious crush on his cat. Jay's attention is broken by something through the window. Outside, lumbering straight for the store, is EDGAR. Jay thinks for a moment where does he know that face? Suddenly, Edgar raises his arms, pointing both the farmer's rifle and the driver's shotgun. Before Edgar can shoot, Jay YELLS.
JAY: Kay! GET DOWN! And then Jay FIRES, shattering the storefront window, and BLOWING UP A CAR on the street. The blast hurls him up and back a good ten feet, SLAMMING him into the wall with tremendous force. Edgar turns and rushes away down the street as Jay picks himself up.
JAY: The bug in the Edgar suit! The ugly redneck from the picture! That's him! Jay leaps through the broken storefront window and after Edgar.
KAY: ( picking himself up ) Damn it. Kay runs out after Jay.
KAY: We do not discharge our weapons in view of the public.
JAY: Can we drop the cover-up bullshit?! There's an Alien Battle Cruiser that's gonna blow-up the world if we don't.
KAY: There's always an Alien Battle Cruiser.or a Korlian Death Ray, or.an intergalactic plague about to wipe out life on this planet, and the only thing that lets people get on with their hopeful little lives is that they don't know about it. Kay gestures to a group of ONLOOKERS, drawn by the curious blasts from the store. There's smoking rubble everywhere.
KAY: Don't worry about the bug. He's not leaving town. We've got his ship. After gesturing to the back of the Orkin van, where Edgar's spaceship is neatly stowed, Kay pulls out his cell phone.
KAY: ( into phone ) Zed, we're gonna need a containment crew down here at McDougal, south of Houston.
ZED: Containment may be a moot point, my friend. The exodus continues. It's like the party's over and the last one to leave gets stuck with the check. Zed looks down to the vast floor below and sees the four worm guys with suitcases walking across the floor.
ZED: You sorry little ingrates!
ZED: We've only translated a part of the message so far: "Deliver the Galaxy."
ZED: Oh, it gets better. They're holding us He looks up at the screen. It reads:
MIB: DELIVER THE GALAXY. Another contestant has entered the ring.
ZED: Another contestant has entered the ring.
KAY: All right, kid. The Arquillians want the galaxy, whatever the hell that means. We need help. A professional. Someone with years of experience in intergalactic politics. I just hope the little prick hasn't skipped town.
EDGAR: Where do you keep your dead?
VENDOR: ( thinks ) I don't have any dead.
EDGAR: I don't know, the city morgue! Edgar shoves him away roughly. But before he leaves, his eye catches a postcard display marked "LANDMARKS OF THE NEW YORK CITY AREA." Edgar stares, fascinated, but we don't see what he's looking at. He reaches out and picks up a color postcard. He raises it to his face, thinking, then shoves it in his pocket and hurries off.
VENDOR: I don't know, the city morgue! Edgar shoves him away roughly. But before he leaves, his eye catches a postcard display marked "LANDMARKS OF THE NEW YORK CITY AREA." Edgar stares, fascinated, but we don't see what he's looking at. He reaches out and picks up a color postcard. He raises it to his face, thinking, then shoves it in his pocket and hurries off.
JAY: Of course that guy's an alien. That's gotta be the worst disguise I've ever seen. A voice answers him, but not the Vendor's.
KAY: You busy, Frank?
KAY: Call the pound. We got a stray.
JAY: The, uh.dog owes my friend some money.
KAY: ( to Frank ) Arquillians and bugs. What do you know?
KAY: Not a thing? Kay shakes Frank the Pug, trying to force an answer.
KAY: And the bug had other plans.
JAY: Ask him about the belt.
KAY: ( to Frank ) Rosenberg said something about a galaxy on "Orion's belt." What's he talking about, Beats me. Kay shakes Frank the Pug once more.
JAY: ( to a person passing by ) They're rehearsing a ventriloquist act.
KAY: The galaxy is hundreds of millions of stars and planets? How's it here? If a dog can smirk, Frank does.
JAY: The galaxy is hundreds of millions of stars and planets? How's it here? If a dog can smirk, Frank does.
KAY: How small?
KAY: ( to Frank the Pug ) Get out of here. ( then to Jay ) The galaxy's here. It's not on Orion's belt. Jay suddenly notices Frank the Pug bark at a cat farther down the INT. MORGUE - DAY In the morgue, LAUREL is working at a desk when suddenly ROSENBERG'S CAT leaps up onto it from nowhere, the way cats do, landing right in the middle of the file she's studying. Laurel jumps.
JAY: CUT TO: INT. MORGUE - DAY In the morgue, LAUREL is working at a desk when suddenly ROSENBERG'S CAT leaps up onto it from nowhere, the way cats do, landing right in the middle of the file she's studying. Laurel jumps.
LAUREL: Boy, when you want attention She pets the cat. As she does, the cat's collar shines in the light. Laurel turns the name tag to face her.
LAUREL: Outside, the bell DINGS again. Orion looks up, as if knowing who's out there, and not liking it. She SNARLS at the door and leaps off the desk, scurrying across the lab and disappearing under some equipment.
JAY: So two galaxies have been fighting for years. And the only people who've been benefiting are a race of creatures called bugs. Then the two galaxies decide to make peace.and the bugs send this guy down to make sure the fighting never stops.
KAY: By killing the emissaries, and stealing the galaxy they've been fighting about.
JAY: And if we don't get it back before he leaves the planet.we're history.
KAY: We're not even history. 'Cause history implies there's someone around to remember INT. MORGUE - CORRIDOR - DAY On a counter in the morgue corridor, a gray, peeling hand BANGS on a bell on a countertop, over and over. The hand belongs to EDGAR, who is carrying his shotgun, concealing it behind one leg. The morgue attendant, TONY, emerges from a small security cage carrying a worn paperback copy of Atlas Shrugged and a fly swatter.
TONY: Thank you for making sure the bell works. Suddenly, quick as a gunfighter, Tony SNAPS the fly swatter down on a BUZZING FLY. Edgar winces.
EDGAR: A man came in here earlier. A dead man.
TONY: And this means what to me?
EDGAR: He was a very dear friend of mine. And I believe he had an animal with him. A gift I gave him, a pet cat that means worlds to me. I would like it back.
TONY: I'll need a picture ID, written proof of ownership of the cat, or notarized proof of kinship with WHACK! Tony flicks the fly swatter again, sending another bug to meet its maker. Edgar grits his teeth.
EDGAR: Don't do that. WHACK! Still another fly goes down.
TONY: Do what? Tony looks down, to where Edgar's hands rest on the counter. Half a dozen cockroaches stream out of his sleeve.
JAY: I'll handle this one, you wait outside.
KAY: What the hell for?
JAY: Because all we have to do is walk in and get a cat, it's not that hard. But if you go in, you're gonna lay your Jack Webb on her and flash your brain ray in her face and she's gonna end up with leukemia or some shit. The woman's a doctor, she doesn't need you erasing half her med school classes. Take me five minutes. And he continues into the morgue, leaving Kay waiting outside.
KAY: Two minutes!
EDGAR: Where is the animal?!
LAUREL: I told you, I don't know, it ran under some equipment! Over there.
EDGAR: Get it! He grabs her roughly and drags her across the morgue, toward the equipment she pointed to. As they draw close, ORION the cat bolts from underneath it, races between their legs, and leapfrogs over several small cabinets, landing on top of a very tall one with only six inches clearance between it and the ceiling. A very tough hiding place. Edgar just starts to turn when they hear the BELL and a VOICE from the corridor outside.
JAY: Uh, hi.
LAUREL: ( oddly ) ( flashes a badge ) I'm Sergeant Friday, from the Twenty-Sixth precinct. They brought a cat in here with a corpse the other day, might have said "Orion" on the cat's name tag?
JAY: ( flashes a badge ) I'm Sergeant Friday, from the Twenty-Sixth precinct. They brought a cat in here with a corpse the other day, might have said "Orion" on the cat's name tag?
LAUREL: Yes. That's right.
JAY: Right, well, the cat is, uh the cat's a witness in a murder case and I'm going to need to take it with me.
LAUREL: I don't know where the cat is at the moment.
JAY: You don't?
LAUREL: ( lowers her voice to a whisper ) Maybe you could take me with you instead. Jay looks at her.
JAY: Excuse me?
LAUREL: I said, maybe you could take me with you Damn, you do start fast, don't you?
JAY: Damn, you do start fast, don't you?
LAUREL: I'd really like to go with you. Now. Jay just looks at her, amazed at the power he seems to have over this woman. He looks over his shoulder, to make sure he has a few more seconds And, uh, why exactly is that? Laurel rolls her eyes. She seems irritated with him, but it doesn't go with what she's saying.
JAY: And, uh, why exactly is that? Laurel rolls her eyes. She seems irritated with him, but it doesn't go with what she's saying.
LAUREL: I just do.
LAUREL: I have something I need to show you. She looks down, pointedly, in the direction of her waist.
JAY: Now slow down, you don't have to hit the gas like that. She leans in and lowers her voice.
LAUREL: You don't understand. You really need to see this.
JAY: And I will. But we gotta get something straight here I'm gonna drive. It's not some kind of macho trip, it's just the way I'm used to doing things, okay?
LAUREL: Look, Stud, I don't know how many more times I'm going to get to tell you this. There's something She points, sharply, at the examination table directly in front of her.
KAY: Freeze it, Bug!
JAY: Don't shoot! Don't shoot!
LAUREL: ( to Jay ) CHRIST, are you THICK!
JAY: How was I supposed to know!?!
LAUREL: What did I have to do, SING it for you!?!
JAY: Maybe if you didn't come on like a drunken prom date!
LAUREL: Oh, that's SO typical. Any time a woman shows the slightest hint of sexual independence, men just
EDGAR: Everybody shut UP!
KAY: Let her go, Shit Eater.
EDGAR: Listen, Monkey Boy, I may have to take that kind of talk in my end of the universe, but compared to you humans, I'm the top rung on the evolutionary ladder, so can it, all You're breakin' my heart. Move six inches to your left and I'll solve all your ORION the cat suddenly attacks, leaping off the top of the cabinet and landing on Edgar, HISSING and scratching and clawing for all she's worth. Edgar snaps an arm up and whips her off. The cat squirms in his arm, the icon jangling. Edgar grabs the icon, holds onto it, and flings the cat away, across the morgue. The icon comes free, remaining in his hand. He drops it into his mouth and swallows. He shoves the gun hard against Laurel's cheek.
KAY: You're breakin' my heart. Move six inches to your left and I'll solve all your ORION the cat suddenly attacks, leaping off the top of the cabinet and landing on Edgar, HISSING and scratching and clawing for all she's worth. Edgar snaps an arm up and whips her off. The cat squirms in his arm, the icon jangling. Edgar grabs the icon, holds onto it, and flings the cat away, across the morgue. The icon comes free, remaining in his hand. He drops it into his mouth and swallows. He shoves the gun hard against Laurel's cheek.
EDGAR: That's better. Now put down your weapons. We're leaving. Kay freezes, teeth clenched, gun still in front of him. Standoff.
KAY: How far you think you'll get without your ship? If that's what you call that hunk of space crap we've got back at our office.
EDGAR: Put the weapons down!
KAY: Never gonna happen, Insect. Edgar backs away with Laurel, further into the morgue, toward a glass window that looks out at the base of an air shaft. Jay and Kay advance, slowly, cornering him.
JAY: It's okay, Laurel!
LAUREL: HOW is it okay?!
JAY: I mean it's going to be okay!
EDGAR: Don't bet on it, meat sack. And with that he turns, leaps and CRASHES right through the window, into the air shaft.
KAY: Damn it! They turn and run out of the morgue.
EDGAR: Take me here.
LAUREL: Edgar just cranks the car into gear opening his mouth and swallowing the icon and in so doing revealing a TRIPLE ROW OF SERRATED BUG-TEETH, he SLAMS HIS FOOT on the gas pedal. Laurel's head snaps back as the car rocks forward. She has no choice, but to grab the wheel and start steering as The car screeches out into traffic, swerving wildly as Laurel is forced to make a 90-degree turn. The car fishtails wildly, swiping an oncoming car as it straightens and heads into the traffic. The furious Cab Driver runs off after it, still yelling as he disappears around the corner. A second later, KAY and JAY rush out into the street. The cab is nowhere to be seen. Jay runs into the street, noticing the wooden beads, the ripped pine-scented green deodorizer, and the still-burning cigarette.
JAY: They're in a cab. And Jay starts running down the street, where DOZENS of cabs are waiting at the intersection. He's running from cab to cab, pounding on windows, scaring the living shit out of people
JAY: Hey! Laurel!? Hey! but Laurel and Edgar are nowhere to be found. Up ahead the light turns green and the tide of taxis wash away, leaving Jay on the street. He turns as a car screeches up behind him, its headlights shining in his eyes. As it gets closer, Jay sees it's Kay in the LTD.
KAY: Stop wasting time. He's not getting off the planet in a cab.
KAY: ( to tech at a desk ) Come with me. Put up a bio-net all the way around Manhattan; if it's not human, it's not leaving the island.
ZED: Same thing: "Deliver the galaxy."
KAY: Yeah, well the bug's got the galaxy, but we've got his ship. He's got to be looking for a way out. Just then, a loud ALARM wails. AT THE MAIN VIEWING SCREEN, A GREEN LINE shoots out from the Arquillian ship, striking a region of planet earth.
JAY: WHAT THE HELL ARE THEY SHOOTING AT US FOR?! Arquillian battle rules, kid. First we get an ultimatum, then a warning shot, then we have a galactic standard week to respond.
ZED: Arquillian battle rules, kid. First we get an ultimatum, then a warning shot, then we have a galactic standard week to respond.
JAY: A galactic standard week? How the hell long is that?
KAY: One hour.
JAY: One hour? Viewing the screen, it now reads:
MIB: DELIVER THE GALAXY OR THE EARTH WILL BE DESTROYED.
SORRY: To keep the bugs from getting it, the Arquillians will destroy the galaxy and whatever planet it's on.
ZED: To keep the bugs from getting it, the Arquillians will destroy the galaxy and whatever planet it's on.
JAY: You're talking about US!
ZED: Sucks, doesn't it?
KAY: Pull up the locations of all land-based interstellar vehicles.
ZED: They're all gone. Frank the Pug took the last ship on the planet. As Kay and Zed watch as the machine scrolls through the data, Jay walks back towards the center of the room, deep in thought. Over him we hear:
KAY: Atlantic City?
ZED: That landfill on the Jersey Shore?
KAY: That landfill on the Jersey Shore?
ZED: Uh, gentlemen.
JAY: Uh, gentlemen.
KAY: Miami Beach?
ZED: Miami Beach?
KAY: Miami Beach?
ZED: Gone, thank God.
JAY: Gone, thank God.
KAY: Gone, thank God.
ZED: Gone, thank God.
JAY: Hey. Old guys. Kay and Zed both look up at once, scowling.
EDGAR: You're coming with me.
LAUREL: What?! Why?!
EDGAR: It's a long trip. I'll need a snack. And he shoves her ahead of him, off in the direction of the space ships. Behind him, abandoned on the front seat of the cab, we finally see the front of the postcard he's been carrying around. "FLUSHING MEADOWS, SITE OF THE 1964 WORLD'S FAIR," it says, with a distinctive photograph of the So that's how he knew.
KAY: Whaddya say we bag us some bug? He hits the gas and the car ROCKETS away from the curb.
JAY: You're taking the tunnel?!
KAY: You know a better way to Queens?
JAY: It's usually jammed?!
JAY: I told you!
KAY: Jay. The button?
JAY: Push the button, Jay. A LIGHTED PANEL rotates into place between the two front seats, and that red button flashes underneath its plastic shield again. Jay flips back the plastic cover and JAMS his finger down on the red flashing button.
KAY: Push the button, Jay. A LIGHTED PANEL rotates into place between the two front seats, and that red button flashes underneath its plastic shield again. Jay flips back the plastic cover and JAMS his finger down on the red flashing button.
KAY: Mind if I smoke?
JAY: In the car, I mean.
KAY: In the car, I mean.
JAY: I don't care!!
KAY: Hey, just a common courtesy. It bothers some people if you smoke in a car. He lights a cigarette and blows the smoke out leisurely, one hand on the wheel, just waiting out the tunnel. Jay gives up struggling to right himself and closes his eyes, suffering through this.
KAY: Yeah, it's harder and harder to smoke anywhere these days. Hell, I suppose I should quit. I've tried. Never took, though. I'm beginning to think I lack And they disappear out the other end of the tunnel
KAY: Well, back to work. He flips his cigarette out the window and cranks the wheel to the left.
LAUREL: Come on, let me go, you don't want to eat me. I'm a very important person on my planet. Like a queen. A goddess, even. There are those who worship me, yes. I'm not trying to impress you with this, I'm just letting you know. It could start a Good. War means food for my family, all seventy-eight million of them. That's a lot of mouths to feed, your highness.
EDGAR: Good. War means food for my family, all seventy-eight million of them. That's a lot of mouths to feed, your highness.
LAUREL: You're a wonderful dad. And with that she KICKS him squarely in the face. He reels, momentarily losing his grip on her. She takes advantage of the moment and FLINGS HERSELF out, into the air. Edgar flails, but she is beyond his reach. She falls, tumbling through the and lands in the branches of a tree. She hits hard, the branches rattling, and reaches out and hangs on for dear life, high above the Above, Edgar just keeps climbing.
JAY: You know how to work that? Kay pumps it once, with extreme confidence.
KAY: No idea whatsoever. He SLAMS the trunk, revealing the flying saucers sitting atop their columns in the distance.
JAY: Oh, shit.
KAY: Set it to pulsar level five, sub-sonic implosion factor
JAY: Press the little green button, on three. Jay raises his weapon; they press their green buttons.
KAY: Press the little green button, on three. Jay raises his weapon; they press their green buttons.
EDGAR: You don't get it. I've won. It's over.
KAY: You are under arrest for violating number 4-1-53 of the Tycho accord. Please hand over any galaxy you might be carrying.
EDGAR: You milk-suckers! You don't matter! In a few seconds you won't even be matter!
KAY: Move away from the vehicle and put your hands on your head. He pumps the gun for emphasis.
EDGAR: Put my hands on my head? Edgar stares at him. Then flexes his arms, still encased in flesh. His giant pincers RIP free of the rotting skin. He extends both pincers to the sides, and, my God, his reach must be twelve feet across. Now the skin and clothes on Edgar's legs begins to CRACK and SHRED. They BURST APART, revealing two hideous, doubled-over insect legs. The bug raises himself aloft on his legs. He sucks in a deep breath of air, and now the rest of the Edgar suit goes the way of the arms and legs. The torso EXPLODES in great rendering of cloth and skin, and finally Edgar's head simply BURSTS apart, SPATTERING against the walls. Edgar now reveals himself as he really is: a hairy, bug-like exoskeleton, a scaly tail with a long stinger, a head like a cobra with elliptical eyes and a small nose, and two horse-like feet with three toes each. He raises his pincers in the air, resting them on his head. The GALAXY hangs on a chain around his neck.
BUG: Like this? Kay and Jay pump their guns and aim at the Bug. Suddenly the Bug SPITS. And a HUGE, SLIMY WAD OF GOO shoots from him and engulfs both shotguns. The Bug snorts it back, tearing them from Jay and Kay's grasp, then swallowing them. Jay and Kay have only a second to react before The Bug SWIPES at them with the back of his clawed hand, like someone brushing aside a gnat and SENDS THEM FLYING FIFTEEN FEET IN THE AIR.
JAY: That did not go at all like I had planned. They look up to see the Bug moving for the second tower and the second flying saucer. Kay gets to his feet.
KAY: This guy's really starting to bug me. Kay starts walking after the Bug.
KAY: Whatever happens, Jay, don't let him get on that ship.
JAY: Where are you going?
KAY: Getting my gun back.
JAY: Kay steps forward and yells at the departing Bug.
KAY: You're just a smear on the sports page to me, you slimy, gut-sucking, intestinal parasite! Eat me! The Bug reacts cranks open its massive jaws with a deafening HISS, lunges forward, and sucks Kay into his mouth. The Bug straightens up to its full height and throws his head back. Kay slides down the Bug's throat, bending it sideways as he kicks and SCREAMS his way down into its abdomen. JAY looks on, in stunned horror. AS THE BUG TURNS TO JAY AND STRETCHES TO ITS FULL HEIGHT and lets loose a
JAY: Hey! Come over here and try that! The concrete THUNKS off the Bug's shell he doesn't seem to notice; just keeps moving. Jay picks up a twisted metal pole and runs at the Bug.
JAY: Stop right there, or I'll start wailing on your waxy, pointed ass! Jay starts pounding on the Bug with the metal pole.
JAY: What are you, afraid of me? Come on! Stand and fight like an arthropod! In frustration, Jay screams and throws himself on the Bug, hanging onto its back, trying to drag it down.
JAY: You're messing with the wrong species, Bug He notices something on his arm.a cockroach running down his sleeve. He flicks it off. Looks down at the ground.sees another roach.looks over to the dumpster behind him.there are more of them.a whole mob, in fact.fifty or sixty of the critters, climbing out of a rusted hole in the dumpster. Jay has one last desperate idea.He kicks at the dumpster part of the side is rusted paper thin and it kicks apart and crumbles to pieces. TENS OF THOUSANDS OF ROACHES pouring forth from the dumpster, crawling like a black glittering river, away from the garbage. Jay leaps to his feet and moves to the glistening mob of insects.
JAY: Hey, Bug! CLOSE ON JAY'S FOOT as he steps on the roach. CRUNCH. ON THE BUG as he flinches on the ladder he hates that sound. ON JAY. He smiles.
JAY: What's that? Can you hear what he's saying? 'Help me! Help me!' CRUNCH. [ON] THE BUG as he starts climbing down the tower and moving toward Jay. ON JAY. They are moving toward each other in a show down Jay moves on, poising his foot over another roach.
JAY: Ooh! There's a pretty one. That one looks kinda familiar, don't you think? I know who that is! The Bug is right over Jay now, jaws dripping ready to gobble him up.
BUG: Don't do that! Jay stares right back at the Bug. Inside, he sees Kay's hand, closing around the trigger of the shotgun. He brings it around, pointing up, straight at the Bug's head.
JAY: That's your Momma! He moves to CRUNCH the roach The Bug moves to chomp Jay Jay stares up at him, unflinching.
JAY: You son of a Kay holds up a finger in a 'wait a minute' gesture pulls out his pocket phone and hits a number.
KAY: Zed. Get a message to the Arquillians. We have the galaxy.
ZED: I think the word's already out. Our friends are coming back. Got an authorized landing at Times Square. You and Jay check it out on the way back. And pick me up one of those soft pretzels, while you're at it. Extra salt. I feel like EXT. WORLD'S FAIR - NIGHT Kay flips the phone closed.
KAY: You were saying?
JAY: Getting eaten!? That was your plan!?
KAY: ( shrugs ) As they argue, behind them, unseen, THE FRONT HALF OF THE BUG RAISES ITSELF UP on its forearms, eyes gleaming with hate, jaws dripping ready to lower itself onto Kay and Jay.
JAY: After I got the shit beat out of me!
KAY: And I almost got digested. It goes with the You coulda told me what you were doing.
JAY: You coulda told me what you were doing.
KAY: There wasn't time, sport! HISSS! The Bug attacks, swinging its head down on them. They turn to see it, and just before the jaws snap down on their heads. BOOM! The Bug's head explodes into a million bits. Bug juice showers down everywhere, bucketsful of goo drenching Kay and Jay even further. They turn to see. LAUREL standing behind the dead Bug, the other atomizer in her hands, the barrel smoking, the weapon and Laurel dripping the Bug innards.
LAUREL: Interesting job you guys got. ON THE SKY. Bits of Bug juice still flying through the air.
DRIVER: Damn bugs. He reaches down and hits a button. Wiper fluid squirts onto the windshield and the wipers spread the bug goo everywhere.
JAY: Look, I know we got rules, but she did just bust the Bug for us. And so maybe you don't have to flashy thing her. Kay pulls out the neuralyzer.
JAY: Who's she gonna tell, anyway? She only hangs out with dead people.
KAY: Not her. Me. They're beautiful, aren't they? The stars. I never just look anymore and they're Kay, you're scaring your partner.
JAY: Kay, you're scaring your partner.
KAY: I haven't been training a partner I've been training a replacement.
JAY: Oh no, I can't do this job by myself.
LAUREL: ( walking towards them ) Hey, guys, we're nowhere near my apartment. We're not even on the right island.
KAY: Maybe you won't have to. Kay starts dialing back the neuralyzer.
KAY: Days. Months. Years. Always face it He hands the neuralyzer to Jay. Taps his pocket. Indicates for him to put his glasses on. Jay resists.
KAY: I've just been down the gullet of an interstellar cockroach. That's one of a hundred memories I don't want. Jay takes the neuralyzer. Slips on his glasses.
KAY: See you around, sport. Jay raises the neuralyzer. With a brilliant FLASH, the screen turns white.
JAY: No, you won't.
ELLE: Zed called. The High Consulate of Regent-9 emissary wants floor seats to the Knicks Bulls game.
JAY: I'll talk to Dennis Rodman, it's his damn Let's roll. Both car doors SLAM, Jay drops it in gear, and the LTD BLASTS away from the curb.
ELLE: Let's roll. Both car doors SLAM, Jay drops it in gear, and the LTD BLASTS away from the curb.
FROM SPACE: Earth is just a tiny ball in our solar system.
