MODERATOR: Tonight we'll discuss a subject most of us seem to consider either bad taste or frivolous or funny. But if our experts are right, we face what might be called a masculinity crisis. Every fourth American man uptight, threatened by the increasing sexual demands of American women.
IRATE WOMAN: They always put it that way, but well, all it means, you know, is every fourth American woman's never satisfied. That's it. I never am have been, you know.
COOL WOMAN: This, this image of the, the man eating woman. It isn't our increasing demands. I think it's the shrinking American male.
SAD WOMAN: No, I never had, well, whatever it is you call it. But the hours he works, I can't blame him.
JOB: Just keep your pants on, ladies.
BEAUTY PARLOR: FASHION SHOW PSYCHIATRIST'S COUCH COCKTAIL BAR STATUE OF LIBERTY Before World War One American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power. The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes, surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.
FASHION SHOW: PSYCHIATRIST'S COUCH COCKTAIL BAR STATUE OF LIBERTY Before World War One American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power. The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes, surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.
PSYCHIATRIST'S COUCH: COCKTAIL BAR STATUE OF LIBERTY Before World War One American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power. The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes, surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.
COCKTAIL BAR: STATUE OF LIBERTY Before World War One American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power. The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes, surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.
GYMNASIUM: STATUE OF LIBERTY Before World War One American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power. The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes, surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.
LADY COMMENTATOR: Before World War One American men outnumbered women by over six percent. Today American women not only outnumber men, but live five years longer leaving them in control of vast corporate wealth and seventy-five percent of America's purchasing power. The Lady Commentator is replaced by Joe, stacking dishes, surrounded by frustrated ladies. He laughs tolerantly.
JOE: Y'all,line up and take your turn.
MODERATOR: My question is this will American know-how come up with a marketable male to replace all the men who are worrying themselves into an early grave over women's increasing sexual demands?
WAITRESS: Where's that Joe Buck?
RALPH: Where's that Joe Buck?
JOE: Yeah, where's that Joe Buck? . continuing his song as he pulls up and zips his tight thighed black slacks, freezing song and image for CREDITS.
SALLY BUCK: You look real nice, Joe baby.
MANAGER: Where's that Joe Buck?
JOE: Yeah, where's that Joe Buck?
MANAGER: You're due here at four o'clock. Look at those dishes, look!
JOE: Know what you can do with those dishes? And if you ain't man enough to do it yourself, I'd be happy to Joe picks up his suitcase, a portable transistor radio, walks away from the mirror, then pauses to run a comb through his hair, hook a cigarette at the corner of his mouth and strike a match on his thumbnail before he turns back for one admiring glance at himself in the mirror proud, exultant, ready freezing the image as CREDITS END.
MANAGER: Four to midnight, understand? Angle widens to include Joe, holding his suitcase and radio. Ralph stares at him curiously, stacking dishes.
JOE: Say, look, uh, I gotta have a word with you, if you got a second.
MANAGER: Later. Later maybe. The Manager hurries away, carrying a basket of dishes.
RALPH: You ain't coming to work?
JOE: Don't guess. Just come for my day's pay owing and to tell you I'm heading East. Joe tilts his Stetson as the Waitress appears at the door.
WAITRESS: . but she disappears without noticing Joe. Ralph offers his hand. Joe takes it, holds it.
RALPH: What you gonna do back there, East?
JOE: Lotta rich women back there.
RALPH: Men, they mostly faggots.
JOE: Men, they mostly faggots.
RALPH: Must be some mess back there.
JOE: Well, ain't no use hanging around Ain't gonna collect your pay?
RALPH: Ain't gonna collect your pay?
JOE: I got me two hundred twenty-four bucks of flat folding money. He know what he can do with that chicken-shit day's pay. And if he ain't man enough to do it for himself, I be happy to oblige!
JOE: Tough tiddy, ladies, you had your From a high angle Joe starts his long walk toward the bus depot along the street of a small Western town struggling to urbanize itself. The click-clack-click of his boots is loud but somehow lonely The radio at his ear drones grain prices on the Commodity change. Joe's pace slows as he passes.
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE: Benson and Hedges One Hundreds makes special awards from time to time for anything that's longer than anything.
JOE: Care to get out your yardstick, At the same moment, a recognizable variant of the "Big Country" theme blares loud.
JOE: This is a powerful mothah, ain't Ignored by the driver, Joe rises and walks back to his empty double seat, glancing around to see what impression he's made on his immediate fellow travelers an OLD LADY in front of him a hostile young sailor with acne behind him two teeny-boppers flirting with Joe hysterically a PALE BLONDE directly across the aisle, smiling at Joe weakly.
PALE BLONDE: Do you have a stick of gum? Joe leans across, snapping his gum as he offers her a stick. He watches her nibble it daintily on her front teeth.
JOE: Plenty more where that came from.
PALE BLONDE: Thank you, no, it's just till the Dramamine works. I get carsick.
JOE: I only get carsick on boats. But seems to me that's more the fish smell than the bouncing. Joe realizes that her eyes are closed. Mildly depressed, he stretches himself across both seats and turns on his radio, finds only static and snaps it off. Further depressed, he examines his reflection in the bus window, squeezes a black head and runs the comb through his hair, picks a piece of tobacco off his tooth and lights a cigarette, watching the flame die in reflection, forgetting to discard the burnt-out match as he stares out at a vast lonely prairie, a solitary cowboy in the distance, a row of sharecropper shacks apparently deserted, a barefoot little girl motionless at the roadside, watching the bus pass. Through this, leading into the next scene, Sally Buck sings softly ". if that mocking bird don't sing, Grammaw gonna buy you a golden ring."
SALLY BUCK: No, a little lower, sugar, yeah, yeah, that's good. Grammaw's beat.
SALESMAN'S VOICE: You gotta sell yourself, that's the whole trick.
SALESMAN: It ain't the product and it ain't the price, no sir, and it ain't what you sell, it's personality, pure and simple. I ain't shined my own shoes or shaved my own face in forty years, how's that? Not bad for a kid that didn't pass the eighth grade, right?
JOE: Yeah, hell, yeah.
SALESMAN: And that's my golden rule. Make 'em love you. Put yourself over and you can sell them anything. If they like you, they'll buy horsemeat for prime beef.
SALLY BUCK: You get him to the church, honey. He ain't gonna find out you ain't a real blonde till after you're married, then's too late. Sally Buck turns, pretending to be stern as Toe laughs.
OLD LADY: I want it on. Joe switches it on again, fakes a good-natured grin, settles back with his radio, aware of an OLD COWHAND seated opposite him, replacing the Pale Blonde. The Old Cowhand is appraising Joe's wardrobe curiously. He looks away when he sees Joe watching him. Joe settles back, unable to think of a way to open a conversation.
EVANGELIST'S VOICE: Oh, my friends, I say unto you, invest with Jesus, put your dollars to work where they'll pay off at compound interest. The Good Book says money answereth all things. The Old Cowhand has rolled-himself a cigarette. Joe quickly lights a match on his thumb and holds it across the aisle.
JOE: The Old Cowhand's "thanks" is lost in a fit of coughing as he inhales his first drag. He settles back, wiping his watery eyes on a faded bandana.
EVANGELIST'S VOICE: . everyone who sends a dollar to the Evangelical Congregation of the Air will get free gratis a genuine leatherette hymn book so you can sing along with Sister Rosella and the Evangelical Choir.
JOE: You throw in Sister Rosella and you got a deal, right, old timer? Joe glances across the aisle. The Old Cowhand manages a faint, humorless smile.
OLD COWHAND: Up the line. Not far.
JOE: I'm bound for New York City. The Old Cowhand reappraises Joe's wardrobe even more Ever happen to come across a cowman name of Woodsy Niles? Friend of my grammaw Sally Buck. The Old Cowhand considers, shakes his head. Joe leans back, laughing to himself.
SALLY BUCK: Like it, honey? Does it fit?
WOODSY: You do me good, Sal, you do me real good. You know what I gonna give you for that Stetson? Woodsy grabs Sally Buck, lifting her off her feet, carrying her to the bed. Struggling, they fall across the covers together, Little Joe laughing with them.
SALLY BUCK: Woodsy Niles! The boy!
WOODSY: He don't know what makes little apples by now, it's time he found INT. BUS - NIGHT Joe shakes his head, grinning, offering the old Cowhand a The old Cowhand shakes his head, showing the rolled cigarette Joe lit for him. Joe nods, still bemused.
JOE: The old Cowhand shakes his head, showing the rolled cigarette Joe lit for him. Joe nods, still bemused.
WOODSY: . git along little dogies!
JOE: Nice talking to you, old timer. Joe stuffs a stick of gum in his mouth, turns to wave at the Old Cowhand through the window as the bus pulls away.
WOODSY'S VOICE: She-dogs squat, boy. He-dogs stand up and lift their leg.
WOODSY: . but he-men stand and shoot from the hip.
VETERAN: Ever stationed at Kennedy? Those Florida chicks.
MARINE: Instant V-goddam-D.
VETERAN: This Pensacola teeny-bopper jail bait but built? Ten bucks she wanted. Three of us made a deal for, twenty-five, see, big goddam Big peni-goddam-cillin bargain, You got it.
MARINE: Big peni-goddam-cillin bargain, You got it.
VETERAN: You got it.
MARINE: No. You got it.
JOE: Jesus goddam Christ, I ain't laughed so hard since I was out at Fort Benning, Georgia.
MARINE: Did you make the Viet?
JOE: What? Oh, hell no. Motor pool INT. REMEMBERED WHOREHOUSE - ANOTEER TIME A plump, aging PROSTITUTE laughs up into camera.
PROSTITUTE: Hey, hey, what you try to do to me? You gonna cost me money, soldier!
SALLY BUCK: Keep your meat hooks off my operators, sugar, hear?
ANASTASIA: You're the only one, Joe, the only, only one ever!
JOE'S REFLECTION: Gonna swing my lasso and rope that whole goddam island, yeah!
SALLY BUCK: You be okay, won't you? Maybe I bring you a treat if you're a good INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY Joe watches the Panel Host, ". you're a nut case, fella, a real nut case."
SALLY BUCK: I'm so beat, no point you waiting round, toots, think I'll stop in for a beer or two.
SALLY BUCK: Expect me when you see me. Looks like I got me a new beau, lover boy, how's that for an old grammaw? I'll leave you movie money. Sally Buck tucks a dollar bill under a framed picture of Jesus, who has replaced Woodsy Niles on the mantle.
JOE: Up yours, lady. . but Joe leaves the lady on, savoring the expensive sound of her voice reading the stock quotations. Joe seats himself at the desk, pleased to find a postcard photograph of the hotel. He picks up a ballpoint pen, counts ten floors up from the street and marks a huge X THIS IS ME, then turns the card over, pen poised over the address blank.
RALPH: Hell, he know I can't read.
JOE'S VOICE: After all them dishes are washed, Then they bring some more dishes and I wash them and then I, uh, sleep some and then wash some more dishes and then I.
JOE'S REFLECTION: Then they bring some more dishes and I wash them and then I, uh, sleep some and then wash some more dishes and then I.
JOE'S VOICE: Say it, lover boy!
JOE'S REFLECTION: INT. ROOM 1014 - DAY Joe stares at the postcard, bemused,
JOE'S VOICE: Well, you better just shake your tail, lover boy, and root, hog or Joe rises abruptly, rips up the postcard and tosses it out the window.
JOE: Goddam if I came to this town to write postcards.
JOE: Beg pardon, ma'am, I'm new here in town, just in from Houston, Texas, and looking for the Statue of The delicate profile gives no signs of hearing. Joe follows her to the parkway in the middle of the avenue. There she stops and turns, neither friendly nor hostile.
RICH LADY: Were you looking? About the Statue of Liberty?
JOE: Joking? No, ma'am. Oh no! I mean I'm sorry. I thought you were never mind I've never actually been there, but let me see, you take the Seventh Avenue subway, I think, to the end of the line.
RICH LADY: I'm sorry. I thought you were never mind I've never actually been there, but let me see, you take the Seventh Avenue subway, I think, to the end of the line.
JOE: You sure are a pretty lady. The Rich Lady tries to frown, taken aback, blushing.
RICH LADY: You're not looking for the Statue of Liberty at all.
JOE: No, ma'am, I'm not.
RICH LADY: Why, that's perfectly dreadful. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? A twinkle of amusement and sympathy reveals the age lines at the corner of her eyes. Then she continues on quickly, just as the light turns. Joe's view is blocked for a moment by traffic, then he sees. . the Rich Lady, newly aware of her flanks as she climbs the steps of a brownstone and searches for her key. Still from Joe's viewpoint, he sees himself move into frame and follow the Rich Lady up the steps. The love theme swells O.S. as the Rich Lady leads him into the house and closes the . leaving Joe standing alone on the parkway island, surrounded by towering wealth. The love theme continues EXT. LEXINGTON AVENUE - DAY . a pair of high-heeled pink slippers, walking a miniature poodle slowing slightly, reacting to Joe's cowboy boots as they pass, pause and turn back.
CASS'S VOICE: Hurry up, Baby. Do um goody-goods for Mama. Joe grins, holding his hat over his heart as he approaches CASS TREHUNE, a blonde lady in a tight black dress, with the look of a movie star who wrecked her career with food.
JOE: Beg pardon, ma'am. I'm brand spanking new to this town, come from Houston, Texas, and hoping to get a look at the Statue of You're hoping to get a look at The Statue of Liberty.
CASS: You're hoping to get a look at The Statue of Liberty.
JOE: The Statue of Liberty.
CASS: It's up in Central Park, taking a leak. If you hurry, you'll make the supper show. Now get lost. But as she turns, Cass winks, dimpling the corners of her mouth, signaling Joe to follow her.
CASS: . her lips closing on Joe's as the poodle yaps shrilly at their feet. Superimposed, almost subliminally, a golden dollar sign appears, halating like a star, and the bell of a pinball machine rings O.S.
CASS: . as Joe steps from the elevator, which opens directly onto Cass's penthouse. Cass beckons him toward her, hooks a finger into his neckerchief and pulls his mouth toward hers while she talks on the phone.
CASS: Ye gods. . the images and sound of the television set flicking joyfully from channel to channel. . Joe laughing, engulfed by Cass's abundance. . Cass wild-eyed, overflowing the frame. . a gleaming slot machine three Sahara cowgirls clicking into line for jackpot silver dollars overflowing the EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - DAY . the Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY!
JOE'S VOICE: Holy shee-it, this is a goddam penthouse you got here, Cass, a real goddam penthouse.
CASS'S VOICE: Don't look, baby. Joe turns to look as Cass comes from the bathroom, holding a towel around her as she runs behind the closet door.
JOE: Say, Cass, I, uh, sure have enjoyed being here. Believe it's as fine a time as I've had in my life!
CASS'S VOICE: Me, too, lover.
JOE: That's good, it is, cause, well I guess I didn't tell you why I came to New York, did I? A tower of black bugle beads emerges from the closet door.
CASS: Zip this thing, will you, Tex? Joe zips her dress, follows her to the dressing table, where she sprays her hair with lacquer.
JOB: Truth is, Cass, I'm, well, I'm in Oh, poor you. Morey's got terrible Cass stretches her upper lip across her teeth and she smears it with, orange lipstick.
CASS: Oh, poor you. Morey's got terrible Cass stretches her upper lip across her teeth and she smears it with, orange lipstick.
JOE: Don't know what line Morey's in, but myself now, fact is I'm a Hers'n zodda meg a livig.
CASS: ( lips stretched ) Hers'n zodda meg a livig.
JOE: Beg pardon, ma'am?
CASS: Said, a person's gotta make a You sure you heard what I said?
JOE: You sure you heard what I said?
CASS: Scuse me, hon, fraid I'm only half here. Maybe you oughta run on along. But why don't you take this phone number? Joe grins, relieved as she takes out a gold lame purse and opens it. He frowns as she folds; it upside down, empty.
JOE: Funny thing, you mentioning money. I was just about to ask your for Joe tries to laugh but it sticks in his throat as Cass speaks an impassioned whisper still holding Joe's chin.
CASS: You bastard! You son of a bitch! You think you're dealing with some old slut? Look at me! You think just cause you're a longhorn bull you can get away with this crap? Well, you're out of your mind. I am a gorgeous chick, thirty-one, that's right, you said it! Sobbing suddenly, she throws herself on the bed. Joe stands bewildered by the vastness of her grief.
JOE: Hey. Hey, Cass. Did you think I meant that? Christ, would I be asking you for money with a wad like that riding on my hip? Joe waves his wallet at her, but she only cries louder. He hands her a kleenex. She clutches it to her face, wailing. Joe leans over the bed, whispering in her ear:
RATSO'S VOICE: Excuse me, I'm just admiring that colossal shirt. RATSO studies Joe across the corner of the bar a sickly, child-size old man of twenty-one hopefully nursing an empty beer glass, contemplating the money on the bar in front of Joe.
RATSO: That is one hell of a shirt. I bet you paid a pretty price for it, am I right?
JOE: Oh, it ain't cheap. I mean, yeah, I'd say this was an all right shirt. Don't like to, uh, you know, have a lot of cheap stuff on my Ratso spits as JACKIE leans on the bar next to Joe a feminine young person, heavily made-up, hair teased, wearing earrings and a lace-trimmed blouse over shocking pink levis.
JACKIE: Got a cigarette, cowboy?
RATSO: ( a stage whisper ) More goddam faggots in this town. Reaching for a cigarette, Joe glances at Jackie, startled as Jackie twitches his pink levis angrily and turns away.
JOE: ( shakes his head ) Kee-rist, you really know the ropes. Wish to hell I bumped into you before. I'm Joe Buck from Texas and I'm gonna buy you a drink, what do you say to that?
RATSO: Enrico Rizzo from the Bronx. Don't mind if I do.
JOE: ( slaps bar ) Same all around! For my friend, The TV screen over the bar features a mating game program as Jackie cruises down to join a tall farm boy with plucked eyebrows. The TV HOST points to three young men, visible only from the shoulders up, from whom a pretty DATE GIRL in blindfold must choose an escort.
TV HOST: . and for the losers, who don't get the girl, we'll give as consolation prices a six month supply of underarm deodorant. In a booth now the TV screen in the background, continuing the game Joe is refilling Ratso's beer glass as he speaks, loud over the laughter of the TV audience.
JOE: . you see what I'm getting at here? She got a penthouse up there with color TV and more goddam diamonds than an archbishop and she busts out bawling when I ask for For what?
RATSO: For what?
JOE: For money.
RATSO: For money for what?
JOE: I'm a hustler, hell, didn't you know that?
RATSO: How would I know? You gotta tell a person these things A hustler? Picking up trade on the street like that baby, believe me you need management.
JOE: I think you just put your finger on it, I do.
RATSO: My friend O'Daniel. That's who you need. Operates the biggest stable in town. In the whole goddam metropolitan area. A stud like you - paying! not that I blame you a dame starts crying, I cut my heart for her.
JACKIE'S VOICE: I'd call that a very minor Ratso grabs the neck of a bottle, sliding back in the booth. Joe scowls as Jackie appears with the tall farm boy.
JACKIE: . in fact, you just sit comfy and I'll cut it out with my fingernail file. You won't even need Blue Cross, Ratso.
RATSO: The name is Rizzo.
JACKIE: That's what I said, Ratso.
JOE: ( suddenly ) Hey now, you heard him. On the TV screen the Date Girl announces:
RATSO: That's okay, Joe. I'm used to these types that like to pick on cripples. Sewers're full of 'em.
JACKIE: May I ask one thing, cowboy? If you sit there and he sits way over there, how's he gonna get his hand into your pocket? But I'm sure he has that all figured out. Good night, sweets.
TV HOST: May present your chosen mate! The TV host pulls aside the screen which has concealed the lower half of the three young men. Number Two, her chosen mate, is a dwarf sitting on a high stool. The girl's spontaneous dismay starts everyone laughing hysterically, including the dwarf.
RATSO: Look, with these chicks that want to buy it, most of 'em are older, dignified, right? Social register types. They can't be trotting down to Times Square to pick out the merchandise. They need a middleman, right? That's O'Daniel. Joe hesitates as Ratso darts into traffic against a red light, yelling unheard obscenities at a cab driver who blasts his horn. Joe runs recklessly forward as Ratso slams the taxi fender with his fist, pretending to be hit, falling into Joe's arms. The taxi stops, halting traffic. Ratso, recovers, strolls casually in front of the cab, biting his thumb at the It is a crime, a stud like you passing out double sawbucks to a chick like that. With proper management you should be taking home fifty, a hundred bucks a day. More if you wanta moonlight.
RATSO: Him I placed with O'Daniel just two weeks ago. And look. Not much of a stud either, what I hear.
JOE: Hey, listen, how about you take me to mee this Mister O'Diddle bird right now?
RATSO: Well, Joe, you're a nice guy, and I'd be doing you both a favor, but why? What'm I dragging my bum leg all over town for? It's no picnic and what for, for me myself, what? Ratso stops opposite the Plaza hotel, pointing across at an aristocratic blonde stepping out of a Rolls Royce.
JOE: Hold it, just hold it. You think I'm that kinda sombitch? Just name your cut, whatever you want, you got it right now. Five? Ten, how's Joe peels a ten from his wallet and offers it to Ratso.
RATSO: Joe, please. You know what I'd ask anyone else? Oh hell, tell you what I'll do, I'll take the ten. . but when I hand you over to Mr. O'Daniel, I'll have to have another ten, Joe; just to like cover INT. PUBLIC PHONE BOOTH - DUSK Ratso is on the phone. Joe holds the door open, listening.
RATSO: This boy is just your meat, Mr. O'Daniel, believe it, I'm telling you what? Enrico Rizzo from the Bronx. The point is he needs you. Right now. Tonight. I got his tongue hanging out.
RATSO'S VOICE: Name's Joe Buck. Cowboy. Just in from Texas, don't know the ropes, new to the city, but very promising material, sir, and ready, if you get what I mean. Fabulous. Right away. What's that room number there INT. WEST SIDE HOTEL ELEVATOR - DUSK As ancient open cage lift rises at the same pace as camera in preceding shot. Joe grins excitedly at Ratso, who nods but glances significantly at the elevator operator. Ratso follows Joe to door as the operator grinds to a stop.
RATSO: Hold it a second. . but the operator slams the door and starts on up. Ratso leans heavily on the down button, glancing at Joe.
JOE: ( digs in wallet ) Ten, ten I got a twenty take Oh hell, forget it.
RATSO: Oh hell, forget it.
JOE: Now take it. Go on. Listen, where can I reach you? Cause I'm gonna make this right with you soon's I get me set up.
RATSO: Forget it.
JOE: I mean, dammit, where you live? Ratso leans on the DOWN as the cage grinds slowly down into view and stops.
RATSO: Sherry-Netherlands Hotel. Now get your ass in there. He's waiting! Ratso steps into the elevator as the door opens then closes, leaving Joe alone, repeating "Cherry Neverlin" as he starts along the corridor looking for 901.
O'DANIEL: You must be Joe Buck. Come in. O'Daniel, fat in a worn-out bathrobe, examines Joe like a prodigal son as he leads him into the room as anonymous as Joe's own room.
JOE: No sir, I'm no cowboy really, but I'm a first class stud.
O'DANIEL: Take it,easy, boy. Seems to me you're different than a lotta boys that come to me. Most of 'em seem troubled, confused, but I'd say you knew exactly what you You bet I do, sir.
JOE: You bet I do, sir.
O'DANIEL: But I'll bet you got one thing in common with them other boys. I'll bet you're lonesome.
JOE: Well, not too, I mean, a little. O'Daniel rises suddenly in a fury of self-righteousness, pacing, his voice simpering, whining sarcastically.
O'DANIEL: I'm lonesome. I'm lonesome so I'm a drunk. I'm lonesome so I'm a dope fiend. I'm lonesome so I'm a thief, a fornicator, a whore-monger. Poop, I say, poop! I've heard it all and I'm sick of it, sick to death.
JOE: Yessir, I can see that.
O'DANIEL: Lonesomeness is something you take. You bear? Dammit, you take it and go about your business, that's all.
JOE: Well, uh, I'm raring to go.
O'DANIEL: Yes, I believe you are. Cowboy, Uh, yessir.
JOE: Uh, yessir.
O'DANIEL: Ready for hard work, son?
JOE: Ready for anything.
O'DANIEL: I got a hunch, Joe Buck, it's gonna be easier for you than most.
JOE: Gonna be like money from home.
O'DANIEL: Money from home, see, there's your strength, you put things in earthy terms any man can understand, son. I warn you I'm gonna use you, I'm gonna run you ragged! Joe laughs, driving an obscene uppercut into the air. O'Daniel laughs with him.
JOE: Get down where?
O'DANIEL: Right here, why not? I prayed in saloons, I prayed in the street, I prayed an the toilet. He don't care where, what He wants is that O'Daniel drops on all fours, crawling to find the plug of an electric cord. He shoves it into a wall socket, switches off the overhead light and suddenly a hollow, tinted plastic Jesus glows on the dresser. O.S. a revivalist congregation sings. And now we notice, with Joe, placards and flags, horns and tracts, all the paraphernalia of a street corner That's the ticket, just open your heart and let it flow. It ain't the words, it's the love beyond 'em!
JOB: That's the ticket, just open your heart and let it flow. It ain't the words, it's the love beyond 'em!
O'DANIEL: That's the ticket, just open your heart and let it flow. It ain't the words, it's the love beyond 'em!
O'DANIEL'S VOICE: Don't fight it, boy!
O'DANIEL: Pray and you shall be heard!
O'DANIEL: Don't be frightened, son!
O'DANIEL: Don't run from Jesus! Joe stops short as he sees the front page of a tabloid on a newsstand. There is a picture of Joe being led away by two deputies, under a headline ALABAMA MURDERER SHOTGUNS ELEVEN.
JOE: Say, you know that runty little bastard I was with?
BARTENDER: I don't know nothing. Joe tenses as he sees the . tabloid picture of himself on the back of the bartender's paper. Joe's hand closes around an empty beer bottle, a terrible violence surging very near the surface. O.S. women scream.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe at his hotel window staring out blankly. Gun fire O.S..
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe curled up on his bed like a baby, fully dressed, his radio on the night stand. O.S. his love theme, remote, EXT. FORTY-SECOND STREET - NIGHT Joe's radio is at his ear ". never too late to look great, Ben's Bargain Basement's open 'till five a.m., miles and miles of Western styles, worth more at any store, money talks and nobody walks." For the first time, Joe is aware of the other midnight cowboys lurking in doorways, the cruising queens, the middle-age men in sport shirts. Joe moves on self consciously as he sees a scar-faced policeman, unconsciously massaging his night stick. Camera holds on a window display of gag buttons, featuring NEW YORK WILL BREAK YOUR HEART,
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe soaking in the tub, eyes closed.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe staring in the mirror. O.S. static over his love theme.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe flexing his muscles in his jockey shorts while LIVE ON TV SCREEN a physical culture personality finishes push-ups and starts pitching his own extra protein bread.
JOE: STILL PHOTOGRAPH Joe sits in the hotel lobby, staring out at the street, unable to concentrate on his comic book. On two-way radio, a woman's voice giggles as she speaks, "When I can't sleep, well, I just dial the time and listen to those old seconds clicking by like, you know, counting sheep?"
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe sits in the hotel lobby, staring out at the street, unable to concentrate on his comic book. On two-way radio, a woman's voice giggles as she speaks, "When I can't sleep, well, I just dial the time and listen to those old seconds clicking by like, you know, counting sheep?"
JOE: Well, now, ma'am, next time you got that feeling coming on, you dial Joe Buck. I'll show you what to STILL PHOTOGRAPH Joe straddles a chair, staring at a blank TV screen.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH: Joe straddles a chair, staring at a blank TV screen.
SINGING COMMERCIAL: Need a little easy money? It's E-Z. Want a little easy cash? It's E-Z.
JINGLE: Easy locations to get to Easy ladies to greet you Easy chairs to seat you Easy payments to meet Let E-Z set you On Easy Street Joe arrives confident Harassed E-Z receptionist Lines of uneasy customers Desperate, angry faces Reams of E-Z forms to fill Clerk's sneer, says Joe has to be kidding
JOE'S VOICE: Key to 1014. Action continues as the DESK CLERK hands Joe a folded paper instead of a key. Joe opens it, deeply perplexed.
DESK CLERK: Looks like you been locked out of your room, buddy. Till you pick up your tab.
JOE: Uh, what about my things'n all?
DESK CLERK: We keep them nice and safe till you get this straightened out.
INTERCUT: Room 1014 warm and inviting, Joe's suitcase on the bed.
JOE: Listen, tell you what, you can keep all the rest of the goddam junk if you let me have just the suitcase. That suitcase means a lot to me.
INTERCUT: The postcard photograph marked X THIS IS ME.
DESK CLERK: We keep everything. House rules.
JOE: Screw off.
JOE: Any objection, gentlemen?
JOB: Y'ain't gonna eat them? The woman stares at Joe blankly. The boy runs a toy mouse across the table, up his mother's arm and around her face. With a polite nod, Joe opens the crackers and squirts one with ketchup. Joe upsets his chair as a great gob of ketchup spills onto his pants.
JOE: . glancing around with an embarrassed laugh, but the only one looking is a cop, scratching his calf with a night stick. Joe keeps his back to the customers as he moves to the water dispenser, wets a paper napkin and tries to wipe away the stain. But the water has only spread the stain across his pants and down his leg. He blushes as a blonde young streetwalker giggles.
JOE: Shuttle. Follow the green light. Automatically,checking the trough of a gum vending machine, Joe unexpectedly faces himself in the mirror, the eyes staring at him tired and hopeless. His hand reaches unconsciously for a cigarette, The package is empty. He crumples it in his fist but holds it.
JOE'S VOICE: Twenty-three bucks, I got to have twenty-three bucks.
ANASTASIA: You're the only one, Joe, the only, only one ever! . the remembered passion continuing, mounting intercut with flash impressions, like flipping pages of a nudie magazine naked, half-draped blondes gazing into camera with sultry eyes, including one comic strip sexpot and the calendar girl in Joe's Texas hotel room.
ANASTASIA'S VOICE: You're the best, the very best, yes, yes, kiss me, oh God please kiss me, Joe, now, now, now! . Joe's face in extreme close-up, sounds of both movie houses merging, confused, dominated by the voices of adolescent boys.
BOYS' VOICES: Hey, Joe, give someone else a chance! What's he doing for chrisake? He kissing Anastasia? You better swallow a whole goddam drugstore, man! . an adolescent ratpack waiting in line behind the screen, laughing in coarse whispers, watching Joe and Anastasia. O.S. theremin voices call "Earthling, where are you?"
JOE: I'm awful damn sorry you're sick, kid, but you gonna have to gimme that money like you said.
FAT BOY: I was lying. I don't have it. What're you going to do to me?
JOE: ( controls fury ) What you got in your pockets? Eagerly, the boy produces a family photograph, a subway token, a dirty handkerchief. Joe grabs his wrist, revealing a How much's that worth?
FAT BOY: I can't go home without my watch! My mother'd die! She'd die! Take my books! Not my watch! She'd die! But Joe has already kicked open the door. Theremin voices drown out the Fat Boy, calling "Earthling, where are you?"
DESPERATE VOICE: Bill, can I call you Bill, Mister Bonner? I feel like I know you from listening. What I called about, Bill, I'm gonna kill myself.
BONNER'S VOICE: Why call me, baby? If you want to do it; just do it, don't talk about it. Are we drunky? Feeling a little sorry for ourselves maybe? Joe appears in full figure as the bus passes. He stands looking at the suitcases in a luggage shop window.
DESPERATE VOICE: Well, Bill, what I got thinking, I didn't want the neighbors to have to find me, this young couple with the boy I want to have my cat, see, INT. RADIO STATION - DAY BONNER, tough in a grey crew-cut, talks on the phone.
BONNER: Okay, baby, now listen, just hold on while I leave the line for a minute. And think about all the kids that are dying overseas for you, okay, baby? Got that? I'll be back in exactly sixty seconds. After this message from. A taxi born blasts, interrupting the sponsor's message.
RATSO: Don't hit me, I'm a cripple. Joe's hand falls on Ratso's shoulder.
JOE: Oh, I ain't gonna hit you, I'm gonna strangle you to death. The cigarette in Ratso's mouth burns into his lip. He jerks spasmodically, choking on smoke as he rips skin away with the butt and drops it in his coffee cup.
JOE: What's in your socks?
RATSO: Not a cent, I swear to God, I swear on my mother's eyes. Ratso removes his loafers and shakes them, glancing at the counter man. His socks don't even conceal his toes. Disgusted, Joe shoves Ratso's small pile back at him.
JOE: It's sticky. What you do, slobber on 'em? I wouldn't touch 'em. Joe should leave Ratso obviously has nothing tangible to offer but Joe hesitates, lighting a cigarette as Ratso pulls on his loafers.
RATSO: How do you like that O'Daniel, flipping out like that? I wanted to get in touch with you when I heard, but I been laid up with this Ratso touches his chest, forcing a cough which continues itself beyond his intention.
JOE: You want some free medical advice, shut your goddam mouth about that Okay, right, right, okay. Another subject. Where you living? Still at the hotel?
RATSO: Okay, right, right, okay. Another subject. Where you living? Still at the hotel?
JOE: Shee-it. I got better things to do than talk to you.
RATSO'S VOICE: Hey, wait up, for crissake! . Ratso hop-skipping to overtake Joe at the traffic light.
JOE: Listen, keep away from me, hear? You come near me again, I snatch you bald-headed!
RATSO: I'm inviting you. I mean if you're not located, I got a place. I'm inviting you, goddamit.
JOE: You inviting shee-it.
RATSO'S VOICE: The X on the window means the landlord can't collect rent which is a convenience, hey? on account of it's condemned.
RATSO'S VOICE: The electric's off. Another I don't mess with Con Edison, hey? What the hell, I got candles, INT. X FLAT - DAY Light from the X window shines on a Florida tourist poster as Ratso leads Joe into an abandoned tub-in-kitchen flat, barely furnished with a table and chair, a rumple of blankets on a burnt-out mattress.
RATSO: I got no heat, but by that time, you know, cold weather, hey, I'll be in Florida. Stretch out. Make yourself comfortable. You hungry? I'll put up some water for coffee. Ratso fills a saucepan from the tub-sink, sets it on a Sterno stove. Joe sits himself on the mattress-bed, pretending to test it, weeks of exhaustion and tension overwhelming him suddenly, his only immediate problem being the effort to restrain a large, comfortable yawn.
JOE: Comfortable, kee-rist, I slept on subways softer than this. Joe stretches himself, yawning, his eyelids drooping heavily. The sounds of the city recede. Joe's love theme plays softly on a distant radio. Joe's eyes close momentarily in spite of him elf.
ANASTASIA: Love me, Joe?
JOE: Smart thing for me to do is haul ass outta here.
RATSO: Whatsa matter now? Joe shivers, pulls a blanket around him, resisting sleep, but the noises of demolition fade, the love theme lures Joe back.
JOE: You don't seem like no fag.
RATSO: What's that supposed to mean? Joe's eyes close, his voice continuing out of half-sleep.
JOE: Want me to stay here, y'after something. What y'after?
ANASTASIA: Say you love me. Just say it.
JOE: Okay. I love you. Anastasia purrs as her lips find Joe's breast, trying to nurse. A flashlight flares suddenly through the car window.
RATSO: For crissake! Still wild-eyed, Joe suddenly points at his stocking feet.
JOE: Where's my boots ?
JOB: How'd they get off me?
RATSO: I took 'em off.
JOE: What for?
RATSO: So you could sleep! I mean Christ! Joe inspects the boots, seats himself on a battered Army cot - which has been added while he slept swinging a boot by its strap, considering whether to stay or go.
JOE: Well now, Ratso, I'm gonna tell you something for your own good, only first gimme a cigarette. Ratso offers a cigarette from his crushed package, Joe strikes a match on his thumbnail and lights up, staring at You want me to stay here tonight, is that the idea?
RATSO: I ain't forcing you, like, I mean, who's forcing you?
JOE: Oh. Guess I got the wrong Joe makes a slow move to pull on one boot.
RATSO: I want you to stay, okay? I goddam invited you, didn't I?
JOE: Well, I hope you know what you're in for. I'm a very dangerous person. Someone does me bad like you. If I caught up with you that night, there'd be one dead Ratso long about now. Hear?
RATSO: I'm impressed. You're a killer.
JOE: So if you want me to hang around for a few days, I thought you should know. Joe yawns, picks up a few blankets and spreads them on the cot. He puzzles out the faded printing on one blanket.
RATSO: Joe do me one favor this is my place, am I wrong? You know, in my own place my name ain't Ratso. I mean it so happens my name is Enrico Salvatore Rizzo.
JOE: Shee-it, man, I can't say all that.
RATSO: Rico then, at least call me Rico in my own goddam place.
JOE: Rico! Rico! Rico! Is that enough? And keep your meat hooks off my EXT. VEGETABLE MARKET - DAY Ratso wears a threadbare raincoat of faded black, several sizes too large, as he shops with housewives at a sidewalk vegetable stand elbowing his way through the ladies, testing fruit, picking up vegetables and putting them back till the GREENGROCER spots him.
GREENGROCER: You! Out! Out! I told you, I calla The other shoppers deliberately turn their backs, avoiding involvement. As the Greengrocer grabs Ratso, Joe ambles into the scene, wearing his dangerous little smile.
JOE: Hey, looka here, that ain't nice, picking on a cripple. Joe intervenes just long enough for Ratso to escape, then ambles on, leaving the Greengrocer in frustrated fury. Camera holds on a tray of coconuts.
RATSO: The two basic items necessary to sustain life are sunshine and coconut milk. That's a known fact. If I can find the goddam hole the milk squirts out.
JOE: This is an okay setup you got here, but I'd say you ain't just exactly, uh, flush, is that right or not?
RATSO: I been sick. Hold this, will ya? Joe takes his time rising to hold the coconut while Ratso tries to poke a hole with a bent ice-pick.
JOE: I think finding you's the smartest thing I ever did, for both of us. You just the crooked kinda sneaky little sidewinder I need to get me hustling in this town. Hey! Joe jerks his hand away just in time to avoid the ice-pick. The coconut bounces on the floor. Ratso picks it up, holds it, while Joe tries to crack it, swinging his boot like a Miami Beach is the only place for a real hustler. Florida has more rich chicks per square yard than any resort spot in the world. They lie out in their pagodas and pergolas waiting to grab the first jockstrap that passes.
RATSO: Miami Beach is the only place for a real hustler. Florida has more rich chicks per square yard than any resort spot in the world. They lie out in their pagodas and pergolas waiting to grab the first jockstrap that passes.
JOE: What's all this sweet talk about Florida? Your friend O'Daniel got a stable down there now? Joe swings violently. Ratso yelps, hopping on his one good leg, sucking his thumb.
RATSO: Cowboy killers! Break my finger, Christ! I got news for you, baby, no chick with any class buys that big dumb cowboy crap. Ratso holds his thumb under the tub-sink faucet.
JOE: Well, I am dumb, that's for sure. I don't talk right. I can't think too good. Just only one thing I ever been good for's loving. Women go crazy for me. Fact. Crazy Annie. Had to send her away. So I don't cash in on that, what am I? I'm shee-it. May's well flush me down that hole with the dishwater. Joe sets the coconut on the floor, holding it with both hands while he tries to smash it with the heel of his boot.
JOE'S VOICE: Make that twenty-three bucks.
RATSO: Look at yourself, Joe, no offense, but frankly, you're beginning to smell. For a stud in this town that's a handicap.
JOE: You talk like a man with a tin Ratso sets the coconut on the window sill, balancing it as he raises the X window.
RATSO: You ain't got a chance in hell. You need threads and glitter, baby. A front, hey?
JOE: Well, uh, my manager's gonna manage all that crap, or else he gonna get a coconut up his flue. Joe slams, the window down. The coconut flies down to crash O.S. on the sidewalk below.
RATSO: A woman in your condition shouldn't do that. Let me help. . adroitly slipping Joe's cleaning in with her load as she turns to seat herself beside Joe.
JOE'S VOICE: It ain't right, stealing from a pregnant lady.
RATSO: What did it cost her? The laundromat syndicate lost a couple coins. I'm crying. The owner brings Joe's clean and blocked Stetson from the rear of the shop. Joe sets it on his head and examines himself in a mirror as the owner hands Ratso, the bill.
JOE: Hey, you're good! I bet you could pick up a living at this if you And end up a hunchback like my old man? You think I'm crippled? You shoulda caught him the end of a Ratso demonstrates a chimpanzee walk. Joe laughs. Ratso turns back in panic as another man takes a chair next to Joe. Ratso is about to retuse when a cop takes the third chair, swinging his handcuffs around to the front, tapping his shoe with his night stick. Ratso quickly drops a rag over the broken padlock, cursing under his breath as he starts working on all three customers at the same time.
RATSO: And end up a hunchback like my old man? You think I'm crippled? You shoulda caught him the end of a Ratso demonstrates a chimpanzee walk. Joe laughs. Ratso turns back in panic as another man takes a chair next to Joe. Ratso is about to retuse when a cop takes the third chair, swinging his handcuffs around to the front, tapping his shoe with his night stick. Ratso quickly drops a rag over the broken padlock, cursing under his breath as he starts working on all three customers at the same time.
RATSO'S VOICE: You think it's funny?
RATSO: Stupid bastard coughed his lungs out breathing that resin all day. They buried him with gloves on. Even the fag undertaker couldn't get his nails clean. As if by conditioned reflex, Ratso chokes on the cigarette in his mouth, coughing painfully. He crushes it out, opens the window to spit, shivering, then slam it and turns back to remove the towel from Joe's neck.
JOE: Kee-rist, you pretty damn clever for a skimpy little gimp.
RATSO: You like it? Take a look.
JOE: Don't rush me. How I do it, see, I get myself primed, like I was turning on the charm for some pretty little blonde lady, then kinda mosey away slow and easy and - swing around! and there you are, you handsome devil. Joe performs his ritual as he speaks, but more relaxed, faintly laughing at himself with Ratso. The wall mirror has been added since we last saw the flat, along with a legless overstuffed chair with burnt-out cushions, a tasselled table cover, pinups, calendar girls and several new Florida tourist posters, Ratso moves to Joe's side, arranging the neckerchief, nodding.
RATSO: Not bad for a cowboy you're okay, you're okay.
JOE: What I'm gonna do, I'm gonna make a cowboy outta you, kid. How about that? Build you up a little, teach you couple little tricks'n turn y'out to stud, Rat-stuff. Joe slaps his hat on Ratso's head, tilts it, hooks Ratso's thumbs in his jeans and shoves a cigarette into the corner of Ratso's mouth. Ratso laughs till he chokes for one instant, self-consciously, mimicking Joe then removes the hat and reaches for his threadbare black raincoat.
RATSO: How do you like that? Cheap I think we struck gold. This is one high-class chick. The Barbizon for EXT. MANHATTAN SKYLINE - DUSK The Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY.
RATSO: Mr. McNeill, I'm calling for Miss Beecham at the Barbizon Hotel for Women. She won't need you EXT. BARBIZON FOR WOMEN - NIGHT A doorman helps a young lady into a limousine.
RATSO'S VOICE: Would you believe a whole goddam hotel with nothing but lonely Joe and Ratso watch from across the street.
RATSO: Score once in that setup, the way chicks talk, Christ. Joe cracks his gum, tilts his hat, starts across the street.
BELLHOP: Hey! No men upstairs!
MISS BEECHAM: I'm afraid there's been a terrible EXT. EXCLUSIVE DRESS SHOP - NIGHT Ratso leans against the window, flipping a coin.
JOE: I want my money, goddamit, you owe me my money whether you get laid or not, lady, shee-it!
INSERT: A huge hypodermic fills the frame, sucking Joe's blood. O.S. Ratso coughs uncontrollably.
JOE: Shee-it. Cough yourself inside out, then light a fag, a goddam fag. You make me puke. Where'd you steal it? In the movies?
RATSO: The coat? A guy I did a favor once gave it to me. Christ.
JOE: Who'd you ever do a favor for? You just let some poor bastard freeze to death, wouldn't you? Joe slams ten dollars on the table. Ratso glances at Joe with curious concern.
RATSO: Where'd that come from?
JOE: Forty-second Street. Where'n hell you think it come from?
RATSO: You wanna know the truth? You dumb bastard, I got it for you. Look at it. Goddam thing's ten sizes too big for me. Ratso pulls off the coat and throws it at Joe.
JOE: Wear it yourself. I wouldn't put it on my back. Joe throws it back at Ratso.
RATSO: Goddamned if I'll wear it! Ratso hurls it in a corner. Joe shoves the ten at Ratso.
JOE: Go get your medicine. Before you die on my goddam, hands.
JOE'S VOICE: Shee-it. I hate boneyards.
RATSO'S VOICE: So split. He ain't your goddam, EXT. PROTESTANT CEMETERY - DAY Ratso leads Joe past a Negro family at a grave glances around snatches an elaborate floral piece from a headstone and hides it under his black raincoat as he darts toward a low dividing wail and swings himself over into.
JOE: Kee-rist, you sure are one twisty little bastard, Ratso.
RATSO: The name's Rico, at my own father's grave, a man deserves some respect.
JOE: Respect shee-it! You even steal flowers for his grave.
RATSO: Can he smell the difference, eh? Joe reads from the ribbon on the floral display.
JOE: Well, uh, he dam well know he ain't 'be-loved Aunt Winifred'.
RATSO: He can't read. Even dumber than you. Couldn't write his own name. X that's what it ought to say there on that goddam headstone. One big lousy X like our flat. Condemned. By order of City Hall. Joe is frowning, standing at the,headstone, momentarily depressed with an undefined sorrow.
JOE: My Grammaw Sally Buck, she died without letting me know.
RATSO: Just keep your hat on and cry a little. They tip you when it's Joe and Ratso join the mourners as the funeral moves to the grave, Ratso mouthing an authentic double-talk. . Joe standing self-consciously, aware of the covert glances of the other mourners, automatically reaching up to remove his hat, remembering when Ratso elbows him in the . Joe scowling, tight-lipped, embarrassed by the tip that is thrust in his hand.
JOE: Just ain't right, cheating someone dead and can't cheat back. In the background, as Ratso speaks, HANSEL and GRETEL MACALBERTSON enter the lunch counter, inspecting the customers one by one. Both wear black turtlenecks and jeans, dressed as twins, both blond and pretty.
RATSO: You and my old man. Same kinda mind. Putting me down till the day he died. . why can't you be like your brothers? Sons a father could be proud of. Yeah, sure. My brothers. Too goddam busy making something of themselves to show up when the old man's dying! Conditioned reflex, Ratso starts to cough. Joe sees the MacAlbertsons in the mirror, standing behind him, studying him. Gretel nods, Hansel hands Joe a large black card, smiling vaguely, then moves on.
JOE: You wanna read something, read this. I been invited somewhere. Shocking pink letters on the black card read YOU ARE INVITED
RATSO: Joe sees a young man washing cups behind the counter. Joe shakes his head, wonderingly, turning to study himself in the
JOE: Well, this thought just struck me. It wasn't too long ago I was washing dishes way the hell somewhere in Texas.
RATSO: Yeah, well, so?
JOE: Now I'm here. I'm in New York City. Getting picked for things. Don't you see what I'm driving at?
RATSO: What you're driving at, you want me to get lost so you can go to your fancy-ass party.
JOE: Did I say that? Did I? It don't say nothing about you.
RATSO: Don't say nothing about you either.
JOE: But they picked me, right? So what I'll do, I'll just say, now look, you want me? Well, I don't go nowhere without my buddy here.
RATSO: ( shrugs ) Well, what the hell, I got nothing better to do.
JOE: Better dry your hair some. You sweating all over the goddam place. Joe pulls out his shirttail, grabs Ratso by the neck and rubs his head dry.
RATSO: Don't need a comb.
JOE: Few dozen cooties won't kill me, don't guess. Joe hands Ratso his own comb. Ratso swipes at his tangled hair angrily until two teeth break in the comb. He hands the comb back, tugs at his hair with his fingers, pats it in place, then looks back into Joe's eyes.
RATSO: Okay? I look okay? In a moment of silence, distant sounds can be heard a siren, the grinding teeth of a garbage truck, the twang of an electric guitar upstairs at the party then Ratso makes a quick gesture of impatience and starts up the stairs, pulling himself on the bannister.
JOE: Better get a hold of someone and tell them I'm here. Ratso points to his ear he can't hear following Joe across the room. The huge loft is crowded with a random selection, gathered to serve as dress extras in an underground film. The party is the scene. The MacAlbertsons merely supply the ingredients and allow it to happen, with cameras strategically placed to record the happening. . Hansel with tape recorder, Gretel with hand-held camera drifting through the crowd catching words and images in a detached, whimsical fashion. Gretel turns her camera on Joe and Ratso as they approach.
RATSO: Rico. Rico Rizzo. Gretel smiles without recognition. Hansel gestures vaguely.
HANSEL: Do you need anything? I mean there's beer and so forth. Whatever your thing is. The twins move away together, pausing to confer with the operator of a tripod camera focused on an emaciated flower girl with long hair and dirty feet, stretched in a sarcophagus, clutching a dead daffodil, her eyes glazed. Scrawled in huge letters on the wall over her head LOVE!
RATSO: If you want the word on that brother and sister act, I'll give you the word. That Hansel's a fag and Gretel's got the hots for herself. So who cares, right? Load up on the salami. Ratso heads for the refreshment table. Joe starts after him but pauses, intrigued by an alcove under the balcony where a light show is in progress surreal images of naked bodies projected against abstract currents of color and strobe . a bored fat lady in a muu-muu, squatted like a Buddha at a low table, rolling joints for the guests. She lights a joint and offers it to Joe as he wanders in to watch the show. Joe laughs delightedly when he realizes what it is.
JOE: Shee-it, this is one helluva party! . glancing around at the others, imitating their techniques the quick inhaler, who follows with sharp gulps of air - the deep inhalers who draw air as they inhale the stylist who lets the smoke drift out and inhales through the nostrils Joe puffing himself slightly dizzy, starting to laugh at the silent flick effect of the strobe light the action around him slowing almost imperceptibly, overcranked a veil of smoke hanging over the fat woman's face, transforming her into a laughing witch a similar veil around Joe's head, relaxing the self-conscious tension of his face, spontaneously curious about the play of light on his hand, grinning at. . a serious young technician handling the light show, scattering psychedelic stars across a sky of magenta flesh. . Joe reaching for the stars as he rises and wanders back to the crowded loft, fascinated to see. . a crew with cameras and lights, on the balcony at one end of the loft, photographing the scene below. . a dark-haired lady by the name of SHIRLEY chic in the style of a gangster's moll drinking beer from the bottle, predatory eyes searching the crowd. . Ratso surreptitiously stuffing his pockets from the buffet table, glancing nervously over his shoulder, unaware of Gretel and her hand-held camera, photographing Ratso as he steals, turning away casually, disinterested. . Joe laughing as he dances for a moment with a tall black girl the lights swinging around them faces swimming. . Shirley in fleeting close-up, gone in an instant, INT. MACALBERTSON BATHROOM - NIGHT . her face in the mirror smiling in a dark, provocative way Joe standing at the bathroom door, forgetting to be embarrassed as Shirley turns away from the mirror, unhurriedly, running her fingers through her hair, boldly meeting Joe's eyes.
SHIRLEY: I can tell, can't you?
JOE: Yeah, oh yeah.
SHIRLEY: What'll we do? Leave now or what? Your place or mine? Oh God, the second I looked at you I knew. Did Joe grins, watching Shirley's lips move, unable to keep her in sync, startled to hear Ratso's voice.
RATSO'S VOICE: She's hooked.
RATSO: . I'd say she was good for ten bucks, but I'll ask for twenty. But Joe is watching with terrible fascination as Hansel and Gretel lift the flower girl from her sarcophagus.
SHIRLEY'S VOICE: Did you know? We were going to make Joe glances down to see himself flanked by Ratso and Shirley.
RATSO: You really want to do business?
SHIRLEY: Who's he? Oh God! Don't tell me you two are a couple ? The flower girl, hypnotically dazed, accepts a broom dipped in black paint and smears a huge X across LOVE. Joe laughs.
HANSEL'S VOICE: Why are you laughing, Joe? Hansel holds a microphone toward Joe, who shrugs, grinning at Ratso and Shirley. Gretel's camera moves down Joe's body.
HANSEL: Are you for real, Joe?
JOE: Well, I ain't a f'real cowboy, but I'm one hell of a stud! Shirley glances at Ratso, who nods, whispering in her ear.
RATSO: A very expensive stud. And I happen to be his manager. The scene from Joe's viewpoint becomes increasingly confusing and fragmented, dialogue and image moving in and out of focus, cameras and lights surrounding him, keeping the center of attention in his own blown mind. . Shirley's eyes unnaturally bright, inspecting his body, lingering on his thighs, moistening her lips.
SHIRLEY: It's too much to come face to face with a walking talking sex fantasy to buy a man's God! . the tall black girl dancing in stroble light, starting to remove her clothes Gretel following her with a camera.
SHIRLEY'S VOICE: I can't wait to tell my man Monday. I should be taking notes. Look at my arm! . Shirley's talon-like fingernails caressing the gooseflesh on her tanned arm.
RATSO'S VOICE: I gotta sit down. I feel crummy. Ratso stretched out on a Victorian love seat the flower girl walking unsteadily, passing out dead daffodils, placing one in Ratso's hand Gretel photographing his reaction.
SHIRLEY'S VOICE: Eat it a man in your line of work has to keep his strength up. . Shirley bringing Joe a massive sandwich on a paper plate, watching him bite into it.
SHIRLEY: It's fantastic, now I know, everything you do has sexual If I you know, bought it could I take pictures of you naked? That's part of it, isn't it, kinky kinda . the tall black girl and a few others are trying to promote an orgy. A scrofulous old wino dances spastically, working his toothless gums, preparing to expose himself to two girls dancing together.
HANSEL'S VOICE: We want you, Joe. You've been . five youths stand beside the sarcophagus two sailors, two cycle freaks, a weight-lifter waiting to be pallbearers. Joe joins them. All lights and cameras are turned on the slow funeral procession, carrying the flower girl out of the loft to the tune of "Moonlight and Roses". Strobe light adds to the unreality of the scene.
SHIRLEY'S VOICE: I had a thing for him. Before I knew. Why should knowing make it more of a thing? . Shirley talks to Gretel as she photographs the funeral.
SHIRLEY: Naturally I'll have to ask myself why a cowboy? And why a cowboy whore? But not tonight.
SHIRLEY: Incidentally, how much is this going to cost me anyway? Joe turns to Ratso, whose attention is fixed on the coats.
JOE: Tell her, Ratso.
RATSO: Twenty bucks.
SHIRLEY: Sold. Let's go.
RATSO: . and taxi fare for me.
SHIRLEY: Get lost.
RATSO: I agree. And for that service I charge one dollar taxi fare. She takes a dollar from her purse and hands it to Ratso, takes Joe's arm and starts down the stairs. Ratso lingers, starting quickly through the coats, frisking them for loose INT. LOFT BUILDING LOBBY - NIGHT At the foot of the stairs, Shirley kisses Joe violently.
SHIRLEY: Your name's Joe. Which is fabulous. Joe could be anyone. Kiss me, Joe, move over, Joe, go away, Joe. It's just perfect. They glance up as Ratso appears, swinging down too rapidly on the bannister. He misses a step and falls a clown's fall, unable to stop but apparently not hurting himself. Shirley and Joe are laughing when Ratso lands at the foot of the He fell. Hey, fella, you fell. Is he all right?
RATSO: ( rises, mimics ) Is he all right!
JOE: Well, if you're awright, why you hanging on the bannister. Can you walk or not?
RATSO: Walk? Naturally I can walk.
SHIRLEY: He's got taxi fare.
JOE: Sure you're all right?
RATSO: ( shouts ) I said yeah! Yeah, yeah, yeah!
JOE: Whoopee ti yi yo.!
SHIRLEY'S VOICE: That happens. Don't worry about Shirley leans on one elbow, looking at Joe sympathetically, fighting an almost irrepressible desire to laugh. Still avoiding Shirley's eyes, Joe finds a cigarette on the side table, searches for matches.
JOE: Well, that's something never happened to me before, you can bet your bottom dollar. Uh, where's the matches, ma'am?
SHIRLEY: Top drawer. Maybe if you didn't call me ma'am, things would work out better. Joe finds the matches, lights up and lies back, staring at the mobile as he smokes, still not looking at Shirley.
JOE: First goddam, time it ever quit on me. Fact. The repressed laugh finally breaks through. Shirley stifles it quickly as Joe sits up, looking at her.
SHIRLEY: ( controls herself ) No. Of course not. Just something struck me funny. Close on Joe watching Shirley closely, reacting.
SHIRLEY'S VOICE: I just put myself in your shoes. I had this image of a bugler without a horn, a policeman without a stick, etcetera, etcetera and I. I think I'd better shut up, I'm making it worse. Shirley composes her face, reaching out to touch Joe. But that doesn't help either. He reacts sharply.
SHIRLEY: Maybe we should take a little nap, see what happens?
JOE: I ain't sleepy.
SHIRLEY: I know. Scribbage! Extreme close-up of Joe frowning, puzzled.
JOE: . camera pulling back to show Joe concentrating on a game, spread out on the sheet, consisting of nine dice lettered on all sides, the object being to build as many words as possible, Scrabble fashion, while a sand timer counts the seconds. Shirley watches Joe's efforts to think with sympathetic amusement. The only word Joe has composed so far is MAN.
SHIRLEY: That's pretty Freudian, Joe.
JOE: What? It's a perfectly good word, ain't it. How much time I got? Goddam sand thing drive you crazy. Kee-rist. Spelling never was a very strong point with me. Even in If you didn't talk so much, maybe you could think more.
SHIRLEY: If you didn't talk so much, maybe you could think more.
JOE: Talking helps. Don't talk, you get muddled in your head. Hey! Now you just look at this here! Joe spells out MONY, down from the M in MAN.
SHIRLEY: There's an E in MONEY. If that's your word.
JOE: M-O-N-Y I'm right! That's just exactly how they spell it up there on that big building, bet you could see it from here. M-O-N-Y.
SHIRLEY: ( stifles giggle ) Okay. Never argue with a man.
JOE: Y what in hell starts with Y? Shirley slyly trails the tips of her fingernails across Joe's chest as she leans over to study the game, breathing softly into his ear as she speaks.
SHIRLEY: It can end in Y day, pay, lay hey, pay lay! One predatory hand rests on his knee as if by accident - disarranging the sheet, talon nails lightly brushing his Cut it out. That's cheating, teasing me so I can't think. Just one bitsy Y word and I gonna beat you!
JOE: Cut it out. That's cheating, teasing me so I can't think. Just one bitsy Y word and I gonna beat you!
SHIRLEY: You gonna beat me, Joe?
JOE: Beat your butt, you don't lemme Gay ends in Y. Fey. You like that gay fey is that your problem?
SHIRLEY: Gay ends in Y. Fey. You like that gay fey is that your problem?
JOE: I show you what problem But the end of his sentence is swallowed by Shirley, taking his kiss in her open mouth, crushed by its impact, an animal noise snarling deep in her throat the agonized alley cat wail of pleasure Joe's problem is solved. Joe's love theme swells triumphant. At the same time, Shirley half-rises, trying to force Joe's head down, her own on top. The issue is joined. Shirley has named the game. Her objective is to force Joe onto his back. Joe's objective is to retain his initiative. Camera ignores the classic action on the central front, concentrating exclusively on peripheral tactical . Joe's elbows pinning her shoulders. . her eyes bright, accepting the challenge. . his tight smile revealing clenched teeth. . her fingers searching out then tickling his underarm. . Joe laughing as he falls lopsidedly. . Shirley laughing triumphantly. . his hand closing on her wrist. . her talon-nails clawing the air. . her toes walking up his calf. . her legs suddenly locking around his knees. . her free hand grabbing his hair. . her shoulder rising as she forces his head back. . her lips pressing down on his. . his hand swatting an unidentified mass of flesh. . her eyes popping, teeth clamping his ear lobe. . his hand catching her ankle. . her teeth losing the ear lobe as she screams. . her foot appearing upside down beside her face. . her talon-nails furrowing flesh, drawing blood. . his head rearing back, roaring. . both rolling to the floor, out of view. . her feet suddenly flying up into view. . her hand tugging rhythmically at the blanket. . her other hand wildly exploring Joe's back. . her ankles locking spasmodically. . her eyes and mouth wide, gaping. . the blanket suddenly ripping free, flying into the air as her arm flings itself around Joe. . the bedclothes spilling down around them, muffling her ascending shrieks.
JOE'S VOICE: Whoopee ti yi yo.
SHIRLEY: Well, I really can't talk now, if you know what I mean, but believe me when I say, Myra, it's an experience every emancipated woman owes herself. I'm not. I'm not exaggerating. Well, what's Phil's poker night? Joe are you available next Thursday, eight-thirty?
JOE: Well, lemme think now, Thursday, eight-thirty, yeah, I guess I could be available. Hell, yeah.
SHIRLEY: Why don't you just come here? I'll be working every night this week. I'll leave a key with the super.
JOE'S VOICE: Well, ma'am Shirley I sure hate to trouble you, but. Shirley opens her purse, savoring the moment. As she places the money in Joe's hand.
JOE: See what you think of that crap. I'll pour your soup. Got some of that junk you like to swill, too. Mentholatum. Aspirin. All that shee Ratso opens the paper bag, trying to control his shivering, pulling out the socks and a suit of long underwear. He sees Joe watching him for a reaction. The best Ratso can do is a slight shake of his head.
RATSO: No. But while you was buying the underwear, I could have lifted the You couldn't lift fly specks from a sugar bowl. Can you hold this? Joe hands Ratso the soup. Ratso seems steadied by the warmth in his hands. He nods, sipping the soup.
JOE: You couldn't lift fly specks from a sugar bowl. Can you hold this? Joe hands Ratso the soup. Ratso seems steadied by the warmth in his hands. He nods, sipping the soup.
RATSO: But thanks. Hey, Joe, don't get sore about this or anything. You promise?
JOE: Well, I don't think I can walk. I mean, I been falling down a lot and, uh.
RATSO: Well, I don't think I can walk. I mean, I been falling down a lot and, uh.
JOE: And what?
RATSO: I'm scared.
JOE: What of?
RATSO: What'll happen. I mean what they do to, you know, do with you if you can't ah, Christ!
JOE: I don't know. Cops. Or the how should I know? Ratso is trembling so violently that the sou, starts to slop over. Joe takes it and sets it on the table.
RATSO: I don't know. Cops. Or the how should I know? Ratso is trembling so violently that the sou, starts to slop over. Joe takes it and sets it on the table.
JOE: Okay. Here it is. You gonna go see the doctor. I got nine bucks and twenty more Thursday and I gonna be riding high before you know it. So you gonna get you the best goddam doctor in this town and get yourself straightened out, that's No doctors. No, sir. Not me. Doctors are like goddam auto mechanics. Fix one-thing, unplug another. Operate for piles and while they're there, they unscrew your liver. My old man, for God's sake, wasn't any sicker'n I am when he went to the doctor.
RATSO: No doctors. No, sir. Not me. Doctors are like goddam auto mechanics. Fix one-thing, unplug another. Operate for piles and while they're there, they unscrew your liver. My old man, for God's sake, wasn't any sicker'n I am when he went to the doctor.
JOE: Well, just exactly what the hell you think you're gonna do? Die on I'm going to Florida, that's my only chance.
RATSO: I'm going to Florida, that's my only chance.
JOE: You know what's wrong with you? You got fevers. You kinky as a bedbug. How you gonna get to Florida?
RATSO: I'll find the money. If you just get me on the bus, that's all I Just when everything's going my way, you gotta pull a stunt like I don't even want you to go. Whaddya think of that? I got other plans for my life than dragging around some dumb cowboy that thinks he's God's gift to women. One twenty-buck trick and he's already the biggest stud in New York City. It's laughable. Joe sets his Stetson on his head.
JOE: Just when everything's going my way, you gotta pull a stunt like I don't even want you to go. Whaddya think of that? I got other plans for my life than dragging around some dumb cowboy that thinks he's God's gift to women. One twenty-buck trick and he's already the biggest stud in New York City. It's laughable. Joe sets his Stetson on his head.
RATSO: I don't even want you to go. Whaddya think of that? I got other plans for my life than dragging around some dumb cowboy that thinks he's God's gift to women. One twenty-buck trick and he's already the biggest stud in New York City. It's laughable. Joe sets his Stetson on his head.
JOE: When I put you on that bus down to Florida tonight, that'll be the happiest day of my life!
JOE: Hey, Shirley. Miss who? Oh, yeah, well, when will Missus Gardner be home? . I'm a friend of hers, a goddam good friend. Shee-it, I can't wait till then. Joe hangs up while the answering service's voice is still talking. The match has burned out. Joe flips it away.
INSERT: Headline WALTER P. BOX TAKES NEW YORK BY SURPRISE.
TOWNY'S VOICE: . TOWNY a stout, round-faced man clasps Joe's hand between both of his own, like an old friend.
TOWNY: How are you? Townsend P. Locke, from Chicago. Call me Towny. I'm here to attend a paper manufacturers' convention and, frankly, to have a little fun, Towny grips Joe's elbow, almost forcibly leading him away.
TOWNY: This is my first night in town and I'll consider it a ghastly omen clouding my entire ten days, if you don't consent to have dinner with me. Anywhere you like. Towny's mouth continues speaking at an incredible rate, but his words are drowned out momentarily by the grinder of a sanitation truck, chewing up a discarded Christmas tree with tinsel clinging to it. Towny is still talking when they've passed the truck.
TOWNY: But, dammit all, I just remembered, we'll have to eat in my room because I have this phone call coming at nine-thirty.
TOWNY: What I like about you, you're such a wonderful conversationalist. So won't that be nice to have dinner sent up?
TOWNY: Fifty years ago this was the only hotel in Manhattan. My mother always calls me at her bedtime, so I've got to be there.
TOWNY: A drink? I've got some nice gin. If you'd prefer something else, they'll send it up.
JOE: Gin's okay.
TOWNY: It's so exciting. New York. The mad forward thrust of everything. My sense of time here is completely INT. TENEMENT STAIRS - DAY Joe carries Ratso down the stairs, wrapped in a blanket.
TOWNY: Sometimes it seems to me time stopped twenty years ago. There was this war, there was this handsome young man with quite black hair and he was supposed to die. But he didn't. Isn't that amusing?
JOE: Towny's dialogue moves out of sync. Towny's eyes seem to look into camera from Joe's viewpoint but slightly past it. The quality of the scene grows increasingly disjointed as Joe glances around the room, looking for something to steal, losing personal contact with Towny, viewing him as an object to be used for a specific purpose.
TOWNY: Enough about me. I'm through talking for the evening. Now I want to hear about conditions in the West. The romance of the West holds a tremendous power over me. Mother was actually a pioneer woman, can you believe it? When she calls, I'll introduce you and she'll be so EXT. TENEMENT NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY Ratso sits an a stoop while Joe hails a cab.
TOWNY'S VOICE: Mama, a coincidence. Guess who was being discussed. Discussed. Not disgusted. Discussed! Do you have that thing turned up? Why aren't you wearing it! This is impossible!
JOE'S VOICE: Listen, Towny, did I mention I got a sick kid?
JOE: Well, he is, he's sicker'n shee-it. And I've gotta get him South quick as I can.
TOWNY: I was so childish with her. Joe moves into frame past camera, standing in front of him, so that we can see the scene from behind Joe's waist.
JOE: What d'you want?
TOWNY: What you got me up here for?
JOE: What you got me up here for?
TOWNY: Oh, difficult, it's so difficult. You're a nice person, Joe I should never have asked you up a lovely person. Oh, how I loathe life. I loathe it. Please go. You want me to leave?
JOE: You want me to leave?
TOWNY: No, yes. No, I mean yes please go. Help me to be good. Come back tomorrow. Promise.
JOE: I'm going to Florida.
TOWNY: This is terrible. I meet someone who then wait, I want to give you a present. For your trip. You'll let me please.
TOWNY: Please take it. You don't have to be Catholic. Saint Christopher is the patron saint of all travelers. I want you to have it. For helping me be good.
JOE: Listen, I gotta have money.
TOWNY: Oh. Yes. Of course. I should have thought. You shouldn't have to ask. That was thoughtless of me. Yes. Wait here. Towny hurries across the room to the bedside table. Beside the telephone is a picture of a prosperous pioneer woman wearing a hearing-aid. Towny tries to conceal his movements as he takes a wallet from the drawer, lifts out a bill and tucks the wallet back and turns terrified to see Joe close behind him almost knocking the lamp off the table in his fright. Pressed against the table, protecting but calling attention to his wallet, Towny holds out the bill.
JOE: ( takes the bill ) I gotta have more'n ten. I gotta have fifty-seven dollars.
TOWNY: I simply don't have it, Joe.
JOE: Get outta my way.
TOWNY: You're wasting your time. There's nothing in there. Towny clutches the table, staring at Joe, shaking his head like a bad little boy. Joe backhands him angrily. Trying to duck the blow, Towny stumbles and slips to the floor, but grabs the table in his arms, watching Joe out of the corner of his eyes, whimpering. Joe grabs his hair, turning his face Let go. Let go of the table. Joe slaps him, but Towny clings more fiercely to the table as Joe tries to jerk it free. Joe strikes him with his fist.
JOE: Let go. Let go of the table. Joe slaps him, but Towny clings more fiercely to the table as Joe tries to jerk it free. Joe strikes him with his fist.
TOWNY: I deserved that, I know I did. But he clutches the table wildly. His mother's picture falls unnoticed. Joe stands in panic, sickened, unable to fulfill the role Towny has assigned him.
JOE: You wanna gimme fifty-seven dollars or you wanna busted skull? Towny simply stares at the lamp.
TOWNY: Thank you, Joe. . provoking Joe to glance back. Towny is reaching for the telephone, his eyes on Joe with wild brightness, holding his hand on the receiver. Joe knocks the phone from his hand, hits Towny in the mouth, jerks the cord from the wall as Towny falls gagging finally dislodging his dentures on the carpet. Joe stands sick and confused, holding the useless phone in two hands.
RATSO: Thirty-one hours. They ride a few moments in silence.
JOE: These guys're good drivers.
RATSO: They gotta be.
JOE: EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY The bus tires sing as it speeds South.
RATSO: You get your first palm tree in South Carolina.
JOE: How'n hell a dumb Bronx kid like you know that?
RATSO: I read it.
JOE: Shee-it. You believe all you read?
JOE: If you have to shiver, why don't you pull the blanket up more?
RATSO: I been thinking. I hope we're not gonna have a lotta trouble about my name down there. Because like what's the whole point of this trip Keep the goddam blanket on.
JOE: Keep the goddam blanket on.
RATSO: I mean New York's one thing, but can you see this guy, imagine it, running around the goddam beach all suntan and he's going in swimming, like, and then somebody yells 'Hey, Ratso' how does that sound to Sounds like they knew you.
JOE: Sounds like they knew you.
RATSO: Sounds like crap, admit it. And I'm not gonna have it. I'm Rico all the time, okay, do you blame me? That's agreed, okay? We're gonna tell all these new people my name's Rico? Joe nods. Ratso closes his eyes, momentarily at peace.
JOE: Hey whatsa matter?
RATSO: ( barely audible ) I'm wet.
JOE: You're what?
RATSO: I wet my pants! My seat's all wet.
JOE: Hell, don't cry about it!
RATSO: Here I am going to Florida and my leg hurts, my butt hurts, my chest hurts, my face hurts, and like that ain't enough, I gotta pee all over Joe laughs suddenly, uncontrollably.
JOE: ( nods, laughing ) You just just what happened, you just had a little rest stop wasn't on the schedule. Ratso begins to laugh with Joe as if it were the funniest thing they'd ever heard. Then Ratso's face pales as he starts to choke and cough. Joe pats him on the back.
JOE: Couple crullers'n coffee to go. The Waitress draws coffee, wraps crullers.
WAITRESS: Where you from?
JOE: New York. Joe pays. She smiles, gives him change. Joe smiles, starts on toward the bus, hardly aware that he has accomplished something rare and remarkable for Joe a simple human contact without fear or threat, a pleasant everyday INT. GREYHOUND BUS - DAY Joe and Ratso have moved to the seat farthest back, wider than the others. Joe blocks the view of the other passengers as he helps Ratso into a new pair of corduroy pants and a Florida shirt. In the middle of the operation, Ratso dozes off. Joe shakes his head, scowling, annoyed, but continues, lifting Ratso enough to slide the pants around his waist. Ratso awakens as Joe zips the fly.
RATSO: Hey, what the hell you doing?
JOE: I'm zipping your fly, what the hell you think I'm doing? They both smile. It isn't funny enough to laugh at. Joe arranges the blanket, takes out a package of cigarettes, glances at Ratso and puts it away.
RATSO: Thanks, Joe.
JOE: Shee-it, you know, I got this thing all figured out, Ratso. I mean Rico. When we get to Miami, what I'll do, I'll go to work. I gotta do that, 'cause see, I ain't no kind of a hustler. I ain't even any goddam good as a bum. I'm a nothing, that's what I am. So reckon I'd better go to work and get me a goddam job. Okay? Joe glances at Ratso, but there is no response. Surreptitiously, Joe takes out a cigarette, turns his face away from Ratso and lights it, hiding it cupped in his hand as he smokes.
DRIVER: Yes, sir?
JOE,: My friend's dead in the back seat.
DRIVER: Your friend's what in the back Dead. Dead as a doornail.
JOE: Dead. Dead as a doornail.
DRIVER: Is this some kind of. He glances at Joe, then pulls off the road and stands up.
JOE: Close them?
DRIVER: Just reach over and close them. That's all. Joe closes Ratso's eyes.
JOE: No, sir. Not till Miami. I'll see to burying then. The Driver moves to the front and turns to the passengers.
DRIVER: Just a little sickness, folks, nothing serious. We'll be in . in forty minutes.
THE END: Writers : James Leo Herlihy Waldo Salt
