MINI: Yo, bee-ach!
KAYLA: Yo, birthday bee-ach!
MINI: Is it on?
KAYLA: Oh, it's on!
MINI: That's my girl!
DIANE: What the hell are you doing? I said wait until- She's not even here, you morons!
CATERER: But, but her friend said
MINI: MINI'S POV:
SURPRISE!: MINI'S POV:
KAYLA: ( whispering, worried ) Oh, God, it's Troy.
MINI: Just keep walking and don't look at ROY, a cocky, chiseled, all-around nightmare, sticks his
T: ROY, a cocky, chiseled, all-around nightmare, sticks his tongue in his cheek, simulating a blow job.
TROY: Yo, Kayla, I got some more of what you were looking for Saturday Ahh.The joys of the American educational system.
TROY: Yo, Mini, why don't you use that mouth for something useful and suck my dick?
MINI: Actually, now that you mention it, I can't think of anything I'd rather do than suck your dick.
TROY: Well, it's all for you, babe.
MINI: ( daring her ) If you can fit it all in.
TROY: ( daring her ) If you can fit it all in.
MINI: ( grabbing his belt buckle ) I'm going to suck your dick, Troy, you said I could.
TROY: Yo, this ain't funny!
MINI: No, Troy, I want to suck your dick right now!
TROY: Jesus, Mini, come on, get off!
MINI: ( screaming ) No, Troy! You said I could, now come on!
MINI: Let's see it! Come on, I want to suck your throbbing member right
MINI?!: Mini turns towards the sound.
MINI: Diane comes storming in.
WHAT?!: Diane comes storming in.
DIANE: When I call you, I expect you to Don't patronize me.
MINI: ( flatly ) Don't patronize me.
DIANE: Don't patronize me.
MINI: ( sugar sweet ) If you're trying to get me to call you a spoiled little ungrateful bitch, you're out of luck, because I won't give you the satisfaction.
DIANE: If you're trying to get me to call you a spoiled little ungrateful bitch, you're out of luck, because I won't give you the satisfaction.
MINI: Thanks, mommy.
DIANE: I'm going out and I need you to wait for the delivery from the liquor store. They'll be here by
MINI: Diane gives Mini the once over, lingering on her mini-skirt. Diane winces at the outfit.
DIANE: Just thought you should know, that makes your thighs look fat.
MINI: ( deadpan ) Gosh, you're right, mom, I'm such a It's a freakin' miracle I'm not anorexic after eighteen years of her little pep talks.
MINI: Have fun, don't do anything I
DIANE: ( over her shoulder ) Well, that doesn't leave much.
MINI: ( under her breath )
JIMMY: ( nervously excited ) Hey, Mini, how you doin'?
MINI: You're late.
I: NT. THE WET BAR - LATER. Mini mixes herself a large Sapphire martini.
DIANE: Jesus ChrMini, why aren't you in
DIANE: Don't worry, Larry, she's going to bed, right now. Aren't you?
I: NT. MINI'S TINY BEDROOM - NIGHT Mini lies awake as the SOUNDS OF DIANE FUCKING SLEAZY GUY #3's brains out waft through the thin walls.
MINI: Oh, I will.Like some coffee for the road?
DIANE: Do you want to live in this shit hole your whole life?
DIANE: Then stay in your fucking room until they leave. Got it?
M: MINI ( V.O. ) ( CONT'D )
MINI: ( breezing past him ) You're home early.
MARTIN: ( searching ) A dinner with a client got Tough day?
MINI: Tough day?
MARTIN: About the same.
MINI: Protecting all those poor defenseless oil companies from those big bad environmentalists?
M: Someone's got to make the payments on your Beemer.
ARTIN: Someone's got to make the payments on your Beemer.
MARTIN: Is your mother around?
MINI: No, she went to a party off Beachwood. She was in one of her "happy moods", so I doubt she'll be sleeping here.
MARTIN: ( innocently ) If you were thinking of inviting a guest over.
MINI: ( innocently ) If you were thinking of inviting a guest over.
MARTIN: ( measured ) I wasn't, but thanks for the concern.You're going out on a school night?
MINI: Martin punches a few buttons on the organizer, his mind clearly elsewhere.
MARTIN: Mmm.Is your homework done?
MINI: Haven't even cracked a book.
MARTIN: ( not listening )
M: MINI ( V.O. )
DIANE: ( slurring ) Oh.wha- what are you doing here?
M: ini stops and looks at her mother, absorbing her insightful question. Mini sighs and heads for the bedroom.
DIANE: Did you have fun, dear?
MINI: Yeah, I turned two tricks and went down on a dyke cop.
DIANE: Thass nice.
E: XT. A HOUSE IN THE HILLS - NIGHT Mini arrives in her convertible and gets out dressed in a cheerleaders uniform.
MARTIN: MINI ( V.O. )
MINI: ( quickly adopting a Sorry, I'm Mlate.
ARTIN: Don't worry about it.
MINI: Mind if I freshen up?
MARTIN: Mini ducks into the bathroom.
MINI: ( still in her southern Just peachy. Listen, Sugar, would you mind turning the lights off, I'm kinda new to all this and a little shy.
MINI: Sure can, in two shakes of a lamb's
M: What did you have in mind tonight?
INI: What did you have in mind tonight?
MARTIN: The deluxe.
MINI: Oh, so you want complete access?
MARTIN: ( voice quivering ) You do know that's extra?
MINI: You do know that's extra?
MINI: Just so we're clear.Now, close your eyes.
MINI: Come on.
MINI: Now just keep them shut for a
MARTIN: ( searching ) that was.you were really good.
MINI: ( southern accent ) Thanks, Sugar.
MARTIN: I'd like to see you again, but.uh.I never got your name?
MINI: Ginger, I won't forget.
MARTIN: Ginger, I won't forget.
M: MINI ( V.O. )
MARTIN: Seconds go by as Mini allows a pathologically triumphant smile to spread across her mouth.
MINI: ( whispering ) You were great.
MINI: Uh, that fall probably won't kill you, and considering what a caring nurturer your wife is, I don't think that's a risk you can afford to take.
M: artin backs away from the railing.
MARTIN: Morning, Kiddo, you finish those math problems?
MARTIN: I'd be happy to help you with it, if you need.
MINI: Actually, I'm thinking about starting a 401K plan at work, could you help me pick a good mutual
I: NT. MINI'S BEDROOM - NIGHT Mini lies in bed under the covers, reading. The door to her room opens. She looks at the clock. It reads: 12:15am. Martin
MINI: ( startled )
MINI: God, I've told you a thousand times to knock.
DIANE: Have you seen Martin? I think he was in his study a half hour ago.
MINI: Uh.can't say that I have.
DIANE: Well, I assume he's gone out, so I've invited Ricardo over for a.cocktail. You know how children make him uneasy, so I'd appreciate if you and. .your friend could either stay in here or use the back door when he
MINI: Oh.sure, no problem.
MINI: Okay, she's gone.
M: of the city twinkle in the background.
MARTIN: I don't want to have to sneak around in my own house.
MINI: I don't want to have to sneak around in my own house.
MARTIN: I don't want to have to sneak around in my own house.
MINI: Well, I don't think telling her is such a hot idea.
MARTIN: I mean, I don't want to live under the same roof with her.
MINI: You can't leave, she'll get half.
MINI: Can I ask how the hell you married her without a pre-nup? Her?
MARTIN: ( sighing ) She wasn't as bad an actress as you Well, there is another option.
MINI: Well, there is another option.
MARTIN: There is?
MINI: But it will take some planning. and some resolve.
MARTIN: Wait, you don't mean-
MINI: Kill her?
MINI: No, of course not, she is my But I've been thinking, if she suddenly got ill-
MARTIN: ( CONTINUED )
MINI: But I've been thinking, if she suddenly got ill-
MARTIN: Unstable, unpredictable, irrational.dangerous to the safety of her husband.her child.She would have to be sent someplace where they could give her the care she needs.
MINI: Unstable, unpredictable, irrational.dangerous to the safety of her husband.her child.She would have to be sent someplace where they could give her the care she needs.
ARTIN: It would be for her own good.
MINI: The only truly caring action we could take.
MARTIN: As painful as it would be for me to be without my loving wife.
MINI: You did it for the well being of your daughter. The selfless act of a devoted parent.
MARTIN: Of course, we'll have to make sure her episodes are well documented.
MINI: And corroborated by friends and people outside the family.
MARTIN: A public complaint by a neighbor wouldn't hurt.
MINI: No, that would be useful.
MARTIN: And we'll find her a very comfortable place out in the With lots of fresh air.
MINI: With lots of fresh air.
MARTIN: It will be a much better life for
MINI: Unable to stand it, their lips meet and they start to hungrily tear at each other's clothes.
M: MINI ( V.O. )
DIANE: Goddamn it! Goddamn it! Goddamn it!
DIANE: Fucking shit! Where are they?
DIANE: I'm gonna be late! It took me three weeks to get an appointment with Anton Michelle, masseuse to the stars and reported possessor of one of the biggest schlongs in town. Rumor has it, he's pouring the pork to every rich wife between Malibu and Pasadena. He must be incredible if Mary Magdalene dragged her ass out of bed this early.
DIANE: .and now I'm gonna miss it because I can't find my fucking car
DIANE: I could use a little help in here!
MARTIN: Coming, honey.
MARTIN: Diane, sugar, do you remember where you put them when you came home last night?
DIANE: Yeah, in the fucking bowl by the fucking door where I always fucking put them!
MINI: Well, uh, you were kinda out of it last night.
DIANE: No, I wasn't! I had one drink with Marie, one!
MARTIN: Uh, are you sure? You did seem a bit tipsy.
DIANE: Yes, I'm sure, you dickless wonder.
D: iane starts rummaging through the drawers of a desk near the front door.
MINI: ( under her breath ) Now don't you listen to her, you are not a dickless wonder.
DIANE: Mini, I'm taking your car. Martin, take her to school.
MARTIN: Diane, I have a meeting with Chapman, he's our biggest client
DIANE: ( opening the door ) Tell him it's an emergency.
MINI: ( mimicking Diane ) Hello, Anton? It's Diane Tannen, I know it's late notice, but I'm going to have to cancel our appointment. What? No, of course, I realize I'll still have to pay.yes, something came up.
DIANE: Anton? But.Jeanette?
JEANETTE: Uh.hi, Diane?
ANTON: ( french accent ) But, Mrs. Tannen, you call and cancel zee session thirty meenutes ago? D
IANE: What? No, I didn't!
ANTON: Yes, I spoke to you myself, you say sometheeng come up.
DIANE: Jeanette, you knew I had an appointment today, did you pretend-
JEANETTE: ( flustered ) No, I, I .Anton called me and told me he had a cancellation.
ANTON: Yes, I call her after you call me.
DIANE: Why, you sneaky little bitch!
MINI: Do you think she'll press charges?
DIANE: Are you kidding? She should get twenty to life! When I told Margo and Penny about her little stunt, they both said they'd have ripped her eyes out. She'll be lucky if anyone speaks to her again.
MARTIN: Here comes the choo-choo.
DIANE: For god's sake, I didn't break both Jeez, I still can't believe you broke your hand on her face? It's so Linda Hamilton.
MINI: Jeez, I still can't believe you broke your hand on her face? It's so Linda Hamilton.
DIANE: ( slugging some wine ) I hope she enjoys shitting out the teeth she swallowed.
CARLOS: osa Angelica, this is Carlos.
R: osa Angelica, this is Carlos.
CARLOS: Ah, sí, Senora Tannen, como esta?
CARLOS: ( taken aback ) I'm going to need a delivery to the
MINI: Gosh, look at all the pretty Your mother said you are having a big party!
CARLOS: Your mother said you are having a big party!
MINI: ( innocently ) I know, can you believe all this?
DIANE: Carlos, what the hell is going on?
CARLOS: Senora Tannen, the delivery you ordered yesterday for the party?
DIANE: Ordered, I didn't order anything?! Who told you to bring these here?
CARLOS: ( flustered ) But, but, Senora, you did, you called me, I talked to you.
DIANE: No, you didn't!
CARLOS: Sí, you said you were having a party, don't you remember?
INI: Mom, is that what you were talking about yesterday?
DIANE: Well, it was after lunch and you had washed your pain killers down with some wine. You mumbled something about a party before you took a nap.
MINI: Well, it was after lunch and you had washed your pain killers down with some wine. You mumbled something about a party before you took a nap.
DIANE: No, I did not!
MINI: ( wincing ) Mom, you did. The doctor said no more mixing pain killers and But, but.I only slept for
DIANE: But, but.I only slept for
MINI: ( to Carlos ) I am so sorry. Listen, we'll pay, don't worry.
DIANE: Oh, god.
MARTIN: What is going on?! Carlos, what the fuck are all these flowers doing Oooh, now I see why he makes the big bucks.
CARLOS: Señor Tannen, we
DIANE: Uh, Martin, I, I.
MARTIN: Diane, did you order all this?!
MINI: Mom, go inside, just go, I'll handle him. It's under control, Dad. Please, let's not make a scene.
M: MINI ( V.O. )
BISHOP: As we see from a closer examination of the facts, Abraham Lincoln's decision to.
MINI: Mr. Bishop, can I go to the little girls room?
BISHOP: Of course, Mini.
I: NT. THE STALL - CONTINUOUS Hauptführer sits down and takes a bottle of vodka out of her nurses coat.
DIANE: ( annoyed ) Mini! I asked you for that drink ten minutes ago!
D: Put it on the counter.
IANE: Put it on the counter.
MINI: You're welcome.
DIANE: Mmm.this is really good. What's in it, Sweetie?
MINI: Oh, this and that.
DIANE: My god, let me tell you, breaking my hand on that bitch's face.
DIANE: .was the best thing that ever happened to me.
DIANE: I feel fantastic, just fabulous. I mean, I feel like I could run a marathon like that Bruce Jenner guy. He did that, right? Boy, I'll tell you before he had that face lift that made him look like a drag queen, I would've let him stick his javelin in me any day.
HUSBAND #1: So I looked each and every juror in the eye-
DIANE: ( spinning around ) I want to talk to you about juries, will you come and talk to me about I'd like to be on a jury and say "guilty!" or "sidebar!" What do you think goes on in all the sequestered situations? Do you think any of the jurors have sex with each other? I was once on an episode of Love Boat, playing the role of "Bikini Girl" and my line was "I'll have another," it was with "Isaac" at the pool bar. I had to suck one of the associate producers off to get the line, but it got me my SAG card, so I guess it was worth it.
HUSBAND #1: I'd like to be on a jury and say "guilty!" or "sidebar!" What do you think goes on in all the sequestered situations? Do you think any of the jurors have sex with each other? I was once on an episode of Love Boat, playing the role of "Bikini Girl" and my line was "I'll have another," it was with "Isaac" at the pool bar. I had to suck one of the associate producers off to get the line, but it got me my SAG card, so I guess it was worth it.
DIANE: I'd like to be on a jury and say "guilty!" or "sidebar!" What do you think goes on in all the sequestered situations? Do you think any of the jurors have sex with each other? I was once on an episode of Love Boat, playing the role of "Bikini Girl" and my line was "I'll have another," it was with "Isaac" at the pool bar. I had to suck one of the associate producers off to get the line, but it got me my SAG card, so I guess it was worth it.
T: he men shoot each other an uncomfortable glance.
HUSBAND #2: Uh, I think I could use a refill.
HUSBAND #1: Me too, please, excuse us.
DIANE: But, but we were talking about juries and Isaac and, and that drag queen I broke my face on and..
DIANE: Hey! COCKBREATH!
DIANE: ( slurring ) .And then I told him that I had been an extra on Hello Larry and Mike Farrell had tried to
MINI: MacLean Stevenson.
DIANE: MacLean Stevenson played "Larry."
MINI: MacLean Stevenson played "Larry."
DIANE: Right, that's what I said.and then MacKenzie Phillips tried to slip me the tongue!
MARTIN: Listen, great job, but you need to give me more warning. I was at dinner with Chapman, and it's the second time I've had to re- I'm sorry, but it was a golden opportunity. You always said you can't pay enough for good
MINI: I'm sorry, but it was a golden opportunity. You always said you can't pay enough for good
T: hey stop in front of a wall of tools: hand axes, hammers and saws. Mini selects a large hand axe.
MINI: Hey, boys.
MINI: Wanna have a little fun?
DIANE: MALE VOICE ( V.O. ) ( breathy, threatening )
DIANE: The breathing increases, getting deeper and more menacing.
DIANE: Hello?.What do you want?
DIANE: ( alarmed ) Who is this?
DIANE: ( looking around ) Who is this?
IANE: This isn't funny. I'm hanging up.
DIANE: If this is some kind of joke.
DIANE: I'm hanging up.
DIANE: ( falling apart ) Why are you doing this?
DIANE: Leave me alone!
DIANE: ( screeching ) Get away!!!
SKATEPUNK #2: Take it easy, lady, what the hell's your problem?
DIANE: ( whimpering ) How do you know where I live?
DIANE: DIFFERENT MALE VOICE ( O.S. ) Diane spins around to find TWO SECURITY GUARDS standing behind her.
S: ECURITY GUARD #1 I'm going to have to ask you to leave the mall. We'll walk you to your car.
DIANE: No! I can't leave, he knows where I
DIANE: Did you hear me?! He knows where I
DIANE: The security guard puts the phone to his ear. The BEEPING sound of a hang up is heard. He nods to his partner, as he removes a walkie talkie.
DIANE: What are you doing?!
DIANE: It's him! Answer it! Answer it! He said he was gonna kill me!
DIANE: He, he knows where I live!
M: Mom, we're going to get some dinner. Do you want us to bring you back something?
INI: Mom, we're going to get some dinner. Do you want us to bring you back something?
DIANE: You're leaving? Both of you?
DIANE: Why don't we just order in?
MINI: Mom, we can't stay in here forever. Do you want to come with us?
MINI: She looks up at Mini.
DIANE: I.can't. You two go.
MINI: EXT. THE BACKYARD - LATER. It is dark and quiet, as the evening dew rises on the lawn.
DIANE: A DIAL TONE rings in her ear. She hangs up the phone. A second later it RINGS again. She waits two rings and then answers. Again a DIAL TONE.
D: The phone dials and she waits.
IANE: Please, please, oh god.
DIANE: Oh god, oh god!
DIANE: No.no.help! Help!
DIANE: Oh, God! Help! Someone!
DIANE: ( softly ) No, please, no.
D: violently tugs at the handle.
IANE: Help! Someone please, help me!
DIANE: Please God, please God.please!
D: iane collapses to the floor in a pool of tears. She looks up again at THE WINDOW: It's empty. The pushing on the door suddenly stops, but Diane is so disturbed, she doesn't notice through her sobs.
MINI: Mom, we're home!
MARTIN: Diane, honey, we brought you a pulled pork plate!
MARTIN: Honey? You okay?.Honey?
MINI: Martin tries the door. Diane still appears to be leaning against it. He pushes hard on the door, opening it a few inches. Mini reaches in and shoves Diane over so they can can open the door. She appears drugged. They lay her flat and try to wake her up.
MARTIN: Diane, it's us, wake up.
MINI: ( feigning concern ) Wake up, Mommy.
MARTIN: Martin lightly taps Diane's cheeks.
MINI: Martin lightly taps Diane's cheeks.
MARTIN: Diane, come on, come on.
MINI: e looks up and immediately sees the bottle.
H: e looks up and immediately sees the bottle.
MINI: I picked that prescription up three days ago. It was probably more than half full.
MINI: ( eerily calm ) I suppose we should call an
MARTIN: Her pulse is almost gone.
MINI: Do you really think they can save I.I don't know.
MARTIN: I.I don't know.
MINI: She'll only try it again. You know she will.
MARTIN: She will if we keep this torture
MARTIN: ( suddenly with resolve ) This is wrong, call an ambulance.
MINI: Hold on, who are we to say her choice was wrong? She put those pills in her mouth.
MARTIN: Don't "Mini" me, you've been bankrolling my little project from day one.
MINI: Don't "Mini" me, you've been bankrolling my little project from day one.
MARTIN: We both agreed murder was out.
MINI: I'd hardly call it murder, if anything, we're just helping to fulfill her last wish.
MARTIN: She wouldn't have taken the pills if we hadn't- Mini, for gods sake, she still has a pulse.
MINI: So do people in comas. It's just a matter of time-
MARTIN: Mini, we-
MINI: Look, you can drop the indignant outrage, because if you really cared, you'd have already grabbed the phone and dialed 911 by now.
MINI: ( softening ) Can't we just admit how lucky we are? It's the perfect alibi, she put the drugs in her system.
MARTIN: What? Just leave her here?
MINI: I don't know.
MARTIN: I don't know.
MINI: Can you think of one person she knows who would say she's sane at this point? This is just the natural, sad and inevitable conclusion to a tragic life.
M: artin ponders the choice.
MINI: We're this close from being free.let's just let nature take its course.
MINI: And so we passed the time watching my favorite show.
HOST: Welcome to "Absolutely Positive!" The show where we give couples about to get married a last chance to make sure they're.
STUDIO AUDIENCE: Absolutely Positive!
HOST: That's right! We send them out on one last date with someone other than their fiance, so they can be sure they're really ready to make that lifelong commitment.
I: dead yet.
MINI: Come on, let's go.
MARTIN: It's time to speed this up.
MINI: It's time to speed this up.
MARTIN: Speed this up?
MINI: We can't wait anymore, our alibi is only believable for maybe another hour. We can say that after dinner we went to a movie, but if she hasn't croaked by midnight, you can forget about this.
MARTIN: No, I'm sorry, this is going somewhere I'm not prepared to go.
MINI: Oh, but you were prepared to sit here until the pills did her in? I hate to break it to you, but wherever you "weren't prepared to go".the hypocrite express just rolled into the station.
MARTIN: What are you suggesting?
MINI: Well, I thought we'd disembowel her and leave her for the raccoons.
MINI: Kidding.God, you've lost your sense of humor. Don't worry, it'll be painless.
ARTIN: Come on, we don't have time.
MINI: Look, if we're going to screw up the details we might as well call San Quentin and tell them to fire up the dutch oven. The gas chamber? Martin, please, I can't explain
MARTIN: I don't think this is a good idea.
MINI: Have you lost your mind, "Mr. Public Relations"? What's the one thing all her friends are going to be talking about when they find "How did she look"? Do you think anyone will think twice if the answer is "fabulous"?
MINI: Well, if you've got anything to say to her, now would be the time.
MARTIN: Could you just pretend to have a little remorse?
E: fumes into the sealed garage.
MINI: Help us, please! My mom, I think she's dead!
MINI: Mommy, wake up!
MARTIN: It's okay, sweetheart, everything's going to be okay.
FIRST PARAMEDIC: Mr. Tannen, I think you should take your daughter in the house.
MINI: Oh, please, don't let her die!
GARSON: Mr. Tannen?
MARTIN: I'm Detective Bill Garson, LAPD.
MAN: I'm Detective Bill Garson, LAPD.
MARTIN: I'm sorry to be here right now, but whenever there's an apparent suicide we are required to do an investigation to rule out homicide.
GARSON: I'm sorry to be here right now, but whenever there's an apparent suicide we are required to do an investigation to rule out homicide.
MARTIN: ( clearly surprised ) It's really just a formality.
GARSON: It's really just a formality.
MINI: ( exploding ) My mother just killed herself! They haven't even taken her away yet! What's wrong with you?
M: Mini, please! He's just doing his Tell him to leave! This is Could we do this another time?
ARTIN: Mini, please! He's just doing his Tell him to leave! This is Could we do this another time?
MINI: Tell him to leave! This is Could we do this another time?
MARTIN: ( to Garson ) Could we do this another time?
GARSON: Of course we
MARTIN: Thank you.
GARSON: But I do need to ask just a few simple questions before I go.
MINI: Didn't you hear him?! He said
MARTIN: ( sharply ) Mini, it's okay.just go lie down for a moment.
MARTIN: So after dinner and the movie, we came home at around 11:30 and found her in the garage. I turned off the car and opened the garage door to let out the exhaust.
GARSON: What about trying to revive your
MARTIN: Of course, we did that too, but I couldn't feel a pulse. Mini took a course at school in CPR and tried that, but. it didn't work.
GARSON: So your wife did this sometime between 8:00 and 11:33 when you placed the 911 call?
MARTIN: May I ask why you left your wife alone when she had been acting in such an unstable state?
GARSON: May I ask why you left your wife alone when she had been acting in such an unstable state?
MARTIN: We never thought she'd do anything like.this. After the episode in the mall, Diane hadn't left the house for three days and my daughter and I just needed a break. It's been a very stressful time.
GARSON: Of course. So this was your wife's Was it in the garage when you left for dinner or did she drive it in?
MARTIN: Was it in the garage when you left for dinner or did she drive it in?
GARSON: Was it in the garage when you left for dinner or did she drive it in?
MARTIN: Was it in the garage when you left?
GARSON: Was it in the garage when you left?
MARTIN: ( a little flustered ) Is, is that important?
G: Just trying to reconstruct what Oh, well.after she was brought home from the mall, the car was towed here and we put it in the And no one drove it during those three days?
ARSON: Just trying to reconstruct what Oh, well.after she was brought home from the mall, the car was towed here and we put it in the And no one drove it during those three days?
MARTIN: Oh, well.after she was brought home from the mall, the car was towed here and we put it in the And no one drove it during those three days?
GARSON: And no one drove it during those three days?
MARTIN: No, Mini and I have our own cars.
GARSON: We are going to have to impound it for a few days to take it to the crime lab.
MARTIN: Crime lab? Oh, okay.
GARSON: Again, purely routine.
MARTIN: Have you found a note yet?
GARSON: Have you found a note yet?
MARTIN: ( confused ) I'm sorry?
GARSON: A suicide note? The deceased usually leaves one.
MARTIN: Oh.right, no.not yet. But we haven't really looked.
GARSON: Mind if I take a look around?
MARTIN: No.of course not.
MINI: Who cares if we didn't leave a note? Just relax.
MARTIN: But they said it's
MINI: So what? He'll do his little dance and chalk it up to another failed actress who realized after forty she might as well be dead.
MARTIN: ( remembering something ) Oh, shit!
MINI: The sweatsuits and goggles.
MARTIN: The sweatsuits and goggles.
MINI: I already snuck out the back and threw them in Mike Rudell's garbage Angelpie, just relax, we did it, we're free.
MARTIN: ( exhaling ) Angelpie, just relax, we did it, we're free.
MINI: Angelpie, just relax, we did it, we're free.
M: artin tips the BELL HOP on the way out and the moment the door closes, Mini jumps into his arms.
MINI: You know, I've been thinking that I might enjoy working in your office this summer.
MARTIN: Really? Sure, if you want.
MINI: I want.
MARTIN: ( extremely tense ) Oh.hi, Mike, what, what are you doing here?
R: udell comes over, clearly aware of how un-father/daughter they were lying.
RUDELL: Last week Mini mentioned you two were coming here for a little R&R, and I suddenly realized I hadn't taken a vacation in god knows when. Jennifer, this is my neighbor Martin Tannen and his daughter,
MINI: I'm sorry, but, Jennifer, have we met? You look so familiar.
JENNIFER: I don't think so.
MIKE: I wanted you both to know how sorry I am for your loss.
MIKE: If there's anything I can do. for either of you.
MIKE: .don't hesitate to ask. Remember I'm just right across the fence.
MARTIN: ( measured ) Thanks, Mike, we appreciate it.
MARTIN: Why did you tell him?!
MINI: I was just being friendly, I had no idea he'd decide to come here.
MARTIN: He knows. He found the clothes and goggles and he fucking knows!
MINI: I doubt he even knows where his trash cans are.
MARTIN: Yeah, well coincidence or not, he saw us together.
MINI: It was dark, I sat up before he saw anything. M
ARTIN: No, he knows. It was like he was toying with us.
MINI: Just relax, what is he going to do? Go home and tell everyone we're a couple? We'll just laugh it off and tell everyone he vacations with
MINI: Oh, come on, could that little moment between you and Jennifer have been any more awkward?
MINI: I'm not jealous or anything, I just think it's funny. Talk about six degrees of penetration.
MARTIN: You realize he could blackmail us? If the police found out about us, that suicide wouldn't look so Martin, please, calm down. Trust me, nothing is going to happen.
MINI: Martin, please, calm down. Trust me, nothing is going to happen.
MINI: ( singing breathily ) "Happy birthday, Mr. President"
MINI: Minerva Tannen, Detective Garson, I don't know if you remember me?
GARSON: Minerva Tannen, Detective Garson, I don't know if you remember me?
MINI: Drogues, my last name is Drogues. And "yes", I remember you, you were the big hearted lug who wanted your questions answered while my mother was still warm.
GARSON: ( ignoring her dig ) So, Mr. Tannen is your stepfather?
MINI: Nice work, McGruff.
GARSON: Again, I am sorry about that night, but it is policy that we get the preliminary facts as soon as What do you want?
MINI: What do you want?
GARSON: I need to ask you a few more questions about your mother's death. M
INI: Sure, come on in.
GARSON: It's a little early for the prom, isn't it?
MINI: A girl can dream, can't she?
GARSON: Perfectly legal. So, anyway, we got the preliminary coroner's report. Although the pills knocked her out, she died of the carbon monoxide poisoning from the exhaust.
MINI: Is it that important?
GARSON: Well, it's just a little unusual for a suicide victim to use two methods. Her choices seemed, I don't know how to put it. Well, maybe she wanted to drift off before the fumes got her? She clearly put some thought into that Clearly.But dying from carbon monoxide poisoning is actually pretty painless, you just basically pass out.
MINI: Well, maybe she wanted to drift off before the fumes got her? She clearly put some thought into that Clearly.But dying from carbon monoxide poisoning is actually pretty painless, you just basically pass out.
GARSON: Clearly.But dying from carbon monoxide poisoning is actually pretty painless, you just basically pass out.
MINI: I doubt she would have had an intimate knowledge of how car fumes feel when you choke on them.
GARSON: I suppose you're right.Also we checked the phone records and there was a 911 call placed at 8:12. It was a hang up and when the 911 dispatcher called back a few minutes later, there was no answer.
MINI: Any idea why she'd call 911?
GARSON: Any idea why she'd call 911?
MINI: Look, I think you should come back when my father's around. He'll be upset I let a stranger in the house. G
ARSON: I think you're safe with me.
MINI: Even so, he won't be happy.
GARSON: Not a problem, will he be home
MARTIN: And you let him in?!
MINI: I played it cool, it would've looked worse to be defensive.
MINI: MARTIN ( V.O. ) ( frustrated )
MINI: ( annoyed ) Hey, I didn't know you had plans!
MINI: Mini hangs up the phone, removing the popsicle slowly from her mouth.
GARSON: I really appreciate you taking the time to help us out. There's just a few loose ends we want to tie up.
MARTIN: Absolutely. What would you like to
G: leafing through papers.
ARSON: There appears to be some question as to the time of death. You said you went to dinner and a movie-
MARTIN: Detective, not to be overly sensitive, but do I need my lawyer here? Because these sound like the questions one asks when there's a homicide investigation.
GARSON: Mr. Tannen, I'd really like to just finish this up, I've got real homicides that need attention. How about if I just ask you some questions and the one's you don't want to answer, we'll just skip?
MINI: That sounds good, doesn't it, Dad? I mean, let's just get this over
MARTIN: Fair enough.
GARSON: Terrific.now, the preliminary blood report indicated she had ritalin in her system.
MARTIN: I wasn't aware my wife was taking Neither was her physician, he had never prescribed it.
GARSON: Neither was her physician, he had never prescribed it.
MARTIN: Well, as you may have discovered by now, my wife had substance abuse problems, I'm sure there were many drugs she took without a I know, but it's an odd drug to be taking. It's mostly given to adults and children with Attention Deficit Disorder to calm them. But in people who don't need it, it has the reverse effect, making them incredibly hyper and agitated.
GARSON: I know, but it's an odd drug to be taking. It's mostly given to adults and children with Attention Deficit Disorder to calm them. But in people who don't need it, it has the reverse effect, making them incredibly hyper and agitated.
MARTIN: Again, Detective, I really can't say why she was taking these drugs.
GARSON: Fair enough.Mr. Tannen, were you and your wife close?
MARTIN: No.we led, for the most part, separate lives. We had decided to stay together for Mini.
O: oh.sacrifice personal happiness for the benefit of the child. I see.
GARSON: I see.
MARTIN: Listen, Detective Garson, I must admit I don't see the relevance of these questions. Diane was an extremely disturbed person. Haven't you interviewed enough people who saw her at her worst?
GARSON: Yes, but what I'm still unclear about is her time of death.
MARTIN: Well, that makes two of us. Again, detective, we were out for the whole evening.
GARSON: ( looking at his notes ) After dinner you saw a movie that That's right.
MARTIN: That's right.
GARSON: What did you see?
MARTIN: That new Jackie Chan movie where the terrorists try to blow up Mount Running time 115 minutes.
GARSON: Ahh.My buddy told me the end is For god sakes, does he think we wouldn't actually see it?
MARTIN: Yeah, he slides down Washington's nose with the bomb strapped to him.
MINI: Dad.Don't give it away, he hasn't seen it yet.
MARTIN: Another demerit.
GARSON: That's okay.Where did you see it?
MARTIN: The Galleria.
GARSON: And you got home at?
MARTIN: MINI ( V.O. )
MARTIN: Now, if there aren't any more questions, it is a school night.
GARSON: No, that about wraps it up for now.
MARTIN: For now? Detective we are trying very hard to put our lives back together, but every time you come by, it just dredges everything back up. We've told you everything we know. G
ARSON: I wish I could be more definitive.
MARTIN: Well, I'm telling you the next time you have a question, it had better be because you're charging us-
GARSON: Martin momentarily freezes.
MARTIN: I'm just asking you to please let us deal with our grief and get on with our lives.
GARSON: ( standing ) Thanks again for your time.
MARTIN: What the hell was I thinking, letting you talk me into this?
MINI: It's probably just routine stuff.
MARTIN: That was not routine, my dear.
MINI: Nice use of the word "us", by the Sorry, it just slipped out.
MARTIN: Sorry, it just slipped out.
MINI: If I had a nickel for every time I heard that-
MARTIN: ( sharply ) Look, just chill, I'm sure this will blow over in a few days.
MINI: Look, just chill, I'm sure this will blow over in a few days.
MARTIN: Chill?! Believe me, we'll be chilling in a pine box if he figures everything out. You do understand they could go for the death penalty?
MINI: He's probably just trying to spook Hello?! They don't try and spook you unless they think you did it!
MARTIN: Hello?! They don't try and spook you unless they think you did it!
MINI: It was a great plan, no one can prove we stuck those sleeping pills in her mouth, because we didn't.
MARTIN: ( seething ) Well, if it was such a great plan, why am I cancelling business dinners to accommodate a detective who appears convinced it wasn't a
MINI: I'll see you later.
MARTIN: Where are you going?
MINI: INT. A DANCE CLUB IN EAGLE ROCK - NIGHT The club is packed with YOUNG LATINO CLUBHOPPERS gyrating to the pulsating beat. Mini, in a tight crimson dress, has attracted quite a crowd, as she dances very provocatively with a MUSCULAR YOUNG LATINO.
M: MINI ( V.O. )
MARTIN: A phone call would have been appreciated at some point. I was Worried that refugee from a J.Lo video rode me `til the tires fell
MINI: Uh.Martin, I'm not sure you're aware, but at this point you can't be my dad and my lover. Where I go and how late I stay out is my I wasn't saying that as a dad. Before your mother and I.grew apart, I would worry if she was out Well, that's sweet, but I'm not her and I can assure you I won't end up passed out in some greaseball's fuck pad with my panties around my
MARTIN: I wasn't saying that as a dad. Before your mother and I.grew apart, I would worry if she was out Well, that's sweet, but I'm not her and I can assure you I won't end up passed out in some greaseball's fuck pad with my panties around my
MINI: Well, that's sweet, but I'm not her and I can assure you I won't end up passed out in some greaseball's fuck pad with my panties around my
MARTIN: What the hell's gotten into you? I just expressed concern for you and you turn around and threaten me? Mini, in a relationship, it's okay to worry about someone else.
MARTIN: Haven't you ever been in a My god, you haven't.
MARTIN: My god, you haven't.
MINI: ( sniffling ) you're my first.
MARTIN: Oh, angel.
MARTIN: Morning, Lois.
LOIS: Mr. Tannen, this just arrived for
MARTIN: Lois, I need you to re-schedule the Chapman meeting. I know.Tell him.tell him it's an unavoidable emergency.
MARTIN: What do you mean you don't keep records on who your senders are?
CLERK: When it's paid cash, we only keep records on packages, not envelopes.
MARTIN: LOIS ( O.S. )
MARTIN: Thank you, Lois.
MARTIN: Steve? Charlie? What, what are you doing in town? Why didn't you tell me you were coming
M: We just heard about Chapman.not that it matters.
ATHER: We just heard about Chapman.not that it matters.
BOYD: We can't afford to lose any more
MARTIN: Jesus, guys, my wife just committed No one's saying this isn't a difficult time for you, but whatever's been distracting you started long before that.
MATHER: No one's saying this isn't a difficult time for you, but whatever's been distracting you started long before that.
BOYD: There's just no way to sugarcoat this.you're a liability we can't afford anymore.
MARTIN: Fifteen years.we've been
MATHER: ( curtly ) We'll be asking all our clients who they would prefer to stay with, and of course, you'll have an equal shot to make your case with them.
MARTIN: Fucking shit! Fucking shit! Fucking
MINI: What are you gonna do?
M: I'm gonna go over there and tell him to back off or he's gonna get Are you crazy? We're not even positive it's him!
ARTIN: I'm gonna go over there and tell him to back off or he's gonna get Are you crazy? We're not even positive it's him!
MINI: Are you crazy? We're not even positive it's him!
MARTIN: My god, the picture was dropped off at a messenger service right across the street from his office! He was the only person at the resort who knew who we were!
MINI: He could go to the cops and tell them you threatened him, then they'd really start investigating us. It's just one photo and you can't even really tell if it's me.
MARTIN: That son of bitch just cost me the firm I worked fifteen years to Well, if you start waving that thing around, he's gonna cost you a lot more than that.
MINI: Well, if you start waving that thing around, he's gonna cost you a lot more than that.
MINI: Hi, Mr. Rudell, I'm sorry to bother Not at all, as I said down in anything for a neighbor.
RUDELL: Not at all, as I said down in anything for a neighbor.
MINI: May I come in?
M: Wow, I haven't been here since you It was just finished. I'm sorry your mother never got to see it I know she'd approve.
INI: Wow, I haven't been here since you It was just finished. I'm sorry your mother never got to see it I know she'd approve.
RUDELL: It was just finished. I'm sorry your mother never got to see it I know she'd approve.
MINI: I know she'd approve.
RUDELL: If you don't mind me asking, .how are you doing?
MINI: It's been hard, but I guess I've just been telling myself that she's probably much happier where she is You're absolutely-
RUDELL: You're absolutely-
MINI: Mini giggles, almost embarrassed.
RUDELL: ( chuckling ) Well, that too, but "correct" was the word I was thinking of. Do you like the show?
MINI: Oh, god, it's my favorite. I love how you never know if the couples will decide to stay together.
RUDELL: I could arrange for you to go to the set one day if you'd like, or even be a contestant?
MINI: A contestant? Really?
RUDELL: Sure, those dates are really quite harmless. You just spend an evening with the person. We prep you on what to say before the show.
MINI: It sounds like fun.
RUDELL: Anyway, what's on your mind?
MINI: Well, um.this may sound strange, but you haven't seen any suspicious looking people around our house No, is everything okay?
RUDELL: No, is everything okay?
MINI: Yes, it's just that since mom's death, someone sent us a photo of Martin and I together.
RUDELL: It indicated that we were.I know this sounds crazy, but.a couple.
MINI: It indicated that we were.I know this sounds crazy, but.a couple.
RUDELL: A couple? You and Martin? Hmmm.I mean, certainly older men and younger women are an .accepted part of society, but for someone to do that, well.it's just tasteless.
MINI: Exactly, so we're just trying to figure who Rit could be.
UDELL: Hmm, I haven't noticed anyone at all.Out of curiosity, what kind of a picture could they send you to indicate that you and Martin were Oh, it wasn't like we were naked or anything. I mean, of course, he's seen me naked, he is my step- Of course.
MINI: Oh, it wasn't like we were naked or anything. I mean, of course, he's seen me naked, he is my step- Of course.
RUDELL: Of course.
E: XT. RUDELL'S FRONT GATE - LATER. Mini walks out, skipping down the path, singing "The Candy Man" to herself.
MINI: "Who can take tomorrow? Dip it in a dream, separate the sorrow and collect up all the cream, the candy man, oh, the candy man can"
MINI: ( singing ) "The candy man can 'cause he mixes it with love and makes the world taste good."
BISHOP: Mini, I've got a message for you to go to the principal's office right
MINI: Detective Garson, is everything all
A: black and white surveillance tape of one of the school's hallways is seen.
GARSON: We've lifted two prints from the door and the inside of the medicine cabinet. They don't match the Mini, is there something you'd like to say to Detective Garson?
PRINCIPAL ANDREWS: Mini, is there something you'd like to say to Detective Garson?
MINI: Can we see the tape of the Der Führer sucking down her afternoon fix of Smirnoff, or don't you have cameras in the bathroom stalls?
PRINCIPAL ANDREWS: Young lady, stealing anything, especially prescription drugs is a serious matter.
MINI: You got me, okay? But what was I supposed to do?
PRINCIPAL ANDREWS: What do you mean?
MINI: ( suddenly hysterical ) She.She said if I didn't, she was.was gonna
PRINCIPAL ANDREWS: Who? Another student?
MINI: My mother! She made me steal them for her! I didn't want to, but she said she was going to send me to boarding school in Canada if I didn't! P
RINCIPAL ANDREWS: ( sobbing ) The Yukon territories! Are you happy, now? You got me!
MINI: ( sobbing ) The Yukon territories! Are you happy, now? You got me!
PRINCIPAL ANDREWS: Oh my lord, I had know idea, she An addict? Detective Garson knew! We told him, and now what? The whole school's gonna know!?
MINI: An addict? Detective Garson knew! We told him, and now what? The whole school's gonna know!?
MINI: She's dead, my mommy's dead. Can't we just leave her be?
PRINCIPAL ANDREWS: Detective Garson, I assume, there won't be a need to press charges against Ms. Drogues?
MINI: ( sniffling ) You gonna cuff me, Copper!?
GARSON: She's free to go.
GARSON: Ah, Mr. Tannen, we were just coming up to see you. Have you got a Detective, I told you no more questions without my lawyer.
MARTIN: Detective, I told you no more questions without my lawyer.
GARSON: I think you'd better call him.
GARSON: There's a small discrepancy that I can't quite figure out and I was hoping you might be able to explain I suppose I can try.
MARTIN: I suppose I can try.
GARSON: The final toxicology report came back and your wife definitely didn't die from the pills. She wasn't conscious past 9:30, but it was the fumes that killed her.
M: Well, hallelujah, thanks for the Martin, easy.
ARTIN: Well, hallelujah, thanks for the Martin, easy.
VOLANT: Martin, easy.
MARTIN: I'm sorry, but this is harassment.
GARSON: See, here's what I needed to ask you. The gas tank in the Jag was almost full, just a gallon had been Well, if she was unconscious by 9:30, that means the car must have been running for at least two hours when you found her. An unconscious person can't turn on a car, right?
MARTIN: Well, if she was unconscious by 9:30, that means the car must have been running for at least two hours when you found her. An unconscious person can't turn on a car, right?
GARSON: Well, if she was unconscious by 9:30, that means the car must have been running for at least two hours when you found her. An unconscious person can't turn on a car, right?
VOLANT: Detective, with all due respect, could you get to the point?
GARSON: Well, here's where I get confused, see, that particular model idling for two hours will burn at least four gallons of gas.
GARSON: So, there's really no way the tank could be almost full if it was running for two hours. Is there?
GARSON: So, I guess what I'm asking is, whose idea was it to put her in the Martin, don't say anything.
VOLANT: Martin, don't say anything.
GARSON: Now, Mr. Tannen, you clearly had the most to gain from her death, but I've learned from a number of your wife's friends that she and Mini had a strained relationship.
VOLANT: Again, Detective, my client won't be answering anything, so let's just cut the cat and mouse.
GARSON: I'd like Mr. Tannen to know that if he's trying to be a protective father by covering up something Mini did, I'd be careful. The district attorney is viewing this case as an opportunity to show the public that the rich don't get away with murder in this town.
V: whispers back.
OLANT: Does this mean he's offering Mr. Tannen immunity if he says he was protecting his daughter?
GARSON: It's a strong possibility. But he wants Mr. Tannen to know he will go for the maximum sentence if he doesn't. No manslaughter, no plea bargains, nothing.
MINI: It was Colonel Mustard in the library with the candlestick.
PELHAM: ( nervously ) Uh.Miss Drogues, as your lawyer-
MINI: Don't wet your pants, I know when to shut up and swallow.
MINI: .my tongue.
GARSON: Look, the fact that the marriage was unhappy and there was no pre- nup gives all the motive to Martin.
MINI: So you want me to say it was his If it was his idea, give me one reason you should take the fall?
GARSON: If it was his idea, give me one reason you should take the fall?
MINI: So if I tell the jury it was his idea and I was scared for my life, because he said he'd kill me if I ever told anyone, then I walk?
M: Sorry, sport, but I'll take my
INI: Sorry, sport, but I'll take my
MARTIN: I never doubted for a minute you were going to hold firm. Not a second. I hope you know that?
MINI: Oh, I knew.I knew.
MARTIN: Good. You realize, we've got to rely on each other?
MINI: Who else do we have?
MARTIN: Exactly. We're almost home free. My lawyer says that gas gauge theory is circumstantial as hell. I've only got one concern now.
MINI: Rudell. If a jury knew we were a couple, we've both got a motive and that changes everything.
MARTIN: Rudell. If a jury knew we were a couple, we've both got a motive and that changes everything.
MINI: Baby, don't worry about him, he's just jealous 'cause you've still got rockin' abs and a better
MINI: Even if he did send that picture, what does it prove?.Nothing.
M: MINI ( V.O. )
MINI: Oh, hey, come and watch. You're missing me, I'm on TV!
MARTIN: What? Why?
MINI: Hurry up, the commercial's almost
HOST: Welcome back to Absolutely Positive. Now it's time to hear how the date between Jason and Mini You? You went on-
MARTIN: You? You went on-
MINI: Yeah, I thought it'd be a gas.now Jason, you said that the reason you wanted to come on the show was to test your ability to resist Well, since Becky and I have dated since high school and decided to remain virgins until marriage, I just wanted to go on a date with another girl just to see how I would react. You know, whether there'd be any feelings of doubt about my decision?
HOST: Jason, you said that the reason you wanted to come on the show was to test your ability to resist Well, since Becky and I have dated since high school and decided to remain virgins until marriage, I just wanted to go on a date with another girl just to see how I would react. You know, whether there'd be any feelings of doubt about my decision?
JASON: ( a bit nervous ) Well, since Becky and I have dated since high school and decided to remain virgins until marriage, I just wanted to go on a date with another girl just to see how I would react. You know, whether there'd be any feelings of doubt about my decision?
HOST: So, after dinner, what happened?
JASON: Oh, gosh, well she suggested we go to a dance club she knew. I'm not really a good dancer, but I said We never go dancing.
BECKY: ( hurt ) We never go dancing.
HOST: So, Mini, is Jason a good dancer?
M: Well, he's a damn quick learner, and not just at dancing.
INI: Well, he's a damn quick learner, and not just at dancing.
MINI: Martin, for god's sake, that was their line. You think I talk like Oh, really? So there was some other teacher-student stuff going on?
HOST: Oh, really? So there was some other teacher-student stuff going on?
JASON: ( uncomfortable ) Uh, no, not really-
MINI: Oh, come on, what about when we went back to your place?
BECKY: You what?!
JASON: I, I don't know what she's talking Come on, don't be bashful. He put on some soft music and-
MINI: Come on, don't be bashful. He put on some soft music and-
JASON: No! This isn't true, why are you-
MINI: We started kissing and-
BECKY: ( to Mini ) Shut up!
JASON: ( to Mini ) Shut up!
STUDIO AUDIENCE: But, Jay-Jay, it was really He loves to be called "Jay-Jay".
OOOOHHHHH!: But, Jay-Jay, it was really He loves to be called "Jay-Jay".
MINI: But, Jay-Jay, it was really He loves to be called "Jay-Jay".
BECKY: You, you.
MINI: Let me tell you, Becky, you're in for a wild ride from this Bronco.
STUDIO AUDIENCE: CUT TO:
WHOOOOOOAAAA!: CUT TO:
MARTIN: Did, did you.
MINI: God, Martin, it was a one time thing. He was a virgin, how could I say "no"? Believe me, she'll thank me after their wedding night.
MARTIN: You had me come home early to-
MINI: Don't be jealous. It won't happen again. It was just a goof.
MARTIN: Rudell? He let you go on?
MINI: Yeah, I thought it would be fun. I wasn't really supposed to, you know, "go all the way" but-
MARTIN: I can't believe you.th-that couple, you ruined their Excuse me, but the show is called Absolutely Positive for a reason. Clearly, the only thing Jason was positive about was-
M: Excuse me, but the show is called Absolutely Positive for a reason. Clearly, the only thing Jason was positive about was-
INI: Excuse me, but the show is called Absolutely Positive for a reason. Clearly, the only thing Jason was positive about was-
MARTIN: You're a sick little twist, you know that?
MINI: Well, what does that make you?
MARTIN: ( heading outside ) I need some air.
MINI: Oh, by the way, some intern from your office stopped by earlier today with something. It's on the
MINI: What is it?
MINI: Oh, my god.
MARTIN: ( very evenly ) I think it's time I had a little chat with our neighbor
MINI: No, this is exactly what he wants! What if he's working with Garson?
MARTIN: Then he can't blackmail me. Wait here, I'll be right back.
MINI: No, please, don't do this! Let me go with you!
MARTIN: I said wait here.
MINI: Don't do this, we can leave tonight! We'll drive to Mexico!
MARTIN: He'll never leave us alone, you realize that?
MINI: No! Let me talk to him, he promised me he wouldn't hurt us!
MARTIN: He did? When?
MINI: A few days ago!
MARTIN: You saw him?
MINI: I went to try and find out what he knew! I spent the afternoon with him- M
ARTIN: I was doing it for us! I figured he wouldn't turn us in if I.
MINI: I was doing it for us! I figured he wouldn't turn us in if I.
MARTIN: If you.?
MINI: If I made him think I was.
MARTIN: And was he?
MARTIN: Please tell me you didn't.
MINI: Martin looks unconvinced.
MINI: I just made him think I would, so he wouldn't turn us in.
MARTIN: ( sarcastically ) Thank you, I appreciate your Fuck you. I'd think you'd be a little more appreciative.
MINI: Fuck you. I'd think you'd be a little more appreciative.
MARTIN: Who were you doing it for when you did it with that kid? Huh? Who was that selfless act for!?
MINI: Oh, like you're such a martyr for being faithful? It shows amazing restraint to limit yourself to just one stepdaughter!
MARTIN: Don't lecture me about fidelity! Your mother was cheating within six months of the "I do's"!
MARTIN: Now, if you'll excuse me.
MINI: Please Look, I'm sorry, I really am, but this isn't the answer!
MINI: You're hurting me!
MARTIN: ( through his teeth ) Calm down or I'll snap it in two, do you hear me?
MARTIN: Now, I want you to wait here for me. Do you understand?
MINI: ( softly ) Please don't do this.
R: "Nice and Easy" is playing on his stereo in the background.
UDELL: Martin, what a surprise, how are Just watched Mini on your show.
MARTIN: Just watched Mini on your show.
RUDELL: Ahh.was tonight the night? We taped that two weeks ago. Let me tell you, I have girls audition all the time for me and. She was fucking incredible.
MARTIN: A natural, huh?
RUDELL: Like a duck to water.and totally willing to take direction.
RUDELL: I wish all the girls I worked with had her.how can I put this?. Need to please.
MARTIN: You son of a bitch.
MINI: ( frantic ) Yes, hello, you've got to send a police car to 2376 Mira Loma Lane right away! My father's gone crazy, I think he's going to hurt our neighbor.yes 2376 Mira Loma, oh god, hurry!
MARTIN: Where are they?! Huh?
RUDELL: What are you talk-
MARTIN: Don't fuck with me! The negatives!
RUDELL: EXT. RUDELL'S PATIO AND POOL - CONTINUOUS Rudell and Martin crash through the plate glass window on to the brick patio. Martin gets to his feet first and grabs a golf club propped up on a chair next to the putting green.
MARTIN: You son of a bitch! How's that feel?! You like that?! You thought you could have my wife and my daughter too?!
MARTIN: Sorry, pal, she's mine! Diane may have taken pity on you between vodkas, but not her! Not her!
M: Now tell me where they are or I swear to god, I'll crack your head Martin, don't!
ARTIN: Now tell me where they are or I swear to god, I'll crack your head Martin, don't!
MARTIN: Go look for the negatives!
MINI: No! This is insane!
MARTIN: We need the negatives!
MINI: You're gonna kill him!
MARTIN: What are you doing! He'll tell Freeze, police!
OFFICER: Drop the club and put your hands
MINI: Thank God! Thank God, you came!
MARTIN: Mini, you called them?! How could you call them?!
MINI: He's.he's crazy, I told him not to! I told him to stop!
T: HE FOREWOMAN, an elderly hispanic woman, casts a harsh eye towards Martin and then reads the verdict.
FOREWOMAN: ( CONTINUED )
MINI: I'm sorry I forgot to bring that book you wanted.
MARTIN: It's okay, Myou can mail it.
INI: Are you okay? You look like you haven't showered in days.
MARTIN: ( disturbed ) Well.uh.you have to be careful about sh-.So how's school?
MINI: ( excited ) You'll never guess what happened.
MARTIN: I was voted valedictorian!
MINI: I was voted valedictorian!
MARTIN: But don't you have to be-
MINI: The best student? I know! But the students took a vote and they said they wanted me to have it for demonstrating remarkable courage in the face of unspeakable loss.
MARTIN: ( smiling sadly ) I wonder how the real valedictorian Like slitting his wrists with the sharp end of a protractor.
MINI: Like slitting his wrists with the sharp end of a protractor.
MARTIN: Is Rudell out of his coma yet?
MINI: I don't know, why?
MARTIN: ( taken aback ) Mini, if he recovers, he may try to blackmail you with those pictures.
MINI: ( nonchalant ) Oh.I wouldn't worry about that.
MARTIN: But if the D.A. got those pictures, you could-
MINI: I'm pretty sure he won't be doing anything with them.
MARTIN: Mini, you're not thinking of sleeping with him to keep him quiet? Because I've met people in here who could help us with him, if it comes to that.
MINI: Help us?
MARTIN: They know people on the outside we could.pay to make sure he doesn't try to take advantage of you.
MINI: Oh, gosh, that's so romantic. It's like you're a real life criminal with connections and everything, but I'm a little surprised you haven't figured it out yet.
MARTIN: ( CONTINUED )
MINI: Oh.wow, like I thought you were just playing along `cause I'm your only link to the outside world, but you really don't know?
M: Rudell didn't send those pictures.
INI: Rudell didn't send those pictures.
MINI: You remember, Aurelio?
MARTIN: Our cabana boy from Mexico?
MINI: What a sweetie, I thought I might have to fuck him, but just giving him the camera was enough.
MARTIN: It was pretty clear Garson wasn't gonna give up, and sooner or later he'd find enough to charge us. It just seemed ridiculous that we'd both end up suffering.
MINI: It was pretty clear Garson wasn't gonna give up, and sooner or later he'd find enough to charge us. It just seemed ridiculous that we'd both end up suffering.
MINI: Oh, come on, you would've done it if you thought of it first.you know I'm right.
MINI: ( suddenly switching gears ) Hey, listen, since conjugal visits are pretty much out of the question, I thought it would be cool if we tried a little prison phone sex.
MINI: They don't tap these lines, do I think I might even be able to open my blouse without anyone seeing.you ready?
MARTIN: No? Are you sure? I won't be able to come back for a few weeks. Wait, have you met someone in Why, you old dog! I knew you wouldn't be single in here for
MINI: No? Are you sure? I won't be able to come back for a few weeks. Wait, have you met someone in Why, you old dog! I knew you wouldn't be single in here for
MARTIN: Why, you old dog! I knew you wouldn't be single in here for
MINI: Why, you old dog! I knew you wouldn't be single in here for
MARTIN: Guard! She did it! She just admitted it! It was her idea!
MINI: I guess this means I could start dating around too?
MARTIN: Don't let her leave! She's guilty! Get the warden!
G: Okay, that's enough!
UARD: Okay, that's enough!
MARTIN: You bitch! You little whore!
MINI: ( starting to cry ) Daddy, why are you saying those
MARTIN: I'm gonna kill you! Do you hear me, you little bitch!
MINI: ( sobbing ) Daddy, stop! I love you! Don't say that! I love you!
MINI: While I may not have excelled in the classroom, I think my recent experiences in that bigger schoolhouse we call "life", have taught me a few lessons that I'd like to share with my fellow
MINI: Follow your heart and don't question it, now matter where it tells you to go. Trust me, it'll open up a world of new experiences you can't even imagine.
MINI: But as you listen to it, don't forget your family, your parents. Don't forget they're people too, and while we may not always agree with them, remember to love them when they need love.
MINI: ( voice breaking ) And I mean really love them, don't just pay them lip service. Really do it.Whenever you can. ( holding back tears )
THE END: Writers : Nick Guthe
