FADE IN ON:: A SINGLE CIGARETTE. A MATCH. A HOTEL ICE BUCKET that holds a bottle of champagne. The cigarette is unlit. The match is of the kitchen variety. The champagne, unopened, is Dom Perignon. There is only one sound at first: a strong WIND-- --now another sound, sharper--a sudden burst of TYPING as we
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: PAUL SHELDON typing at a table in his hotel suite. It's really a cabin that's part of a lodge. Not an ornate place. Western themed. He is framed by a window looking out at some gorgeous mountains. It's afternoon. The sky is grey. Snow is scattered along the ground. We're out west somewhere. The WIND grows stronger--there could be a storm. PAUL pays no attention to what's going on outside as he continues to type. He's the hero of what follows. Forty-two, he's got a good face, one with a certain mileage to it. We are not, in other words, looking at a virgin. He's been a novelist for eighteen years and for half that time, the most recent half, a remarkably successful one. He pauses for a moment, intently, as if trying to stare a hole in the paper. Now his fingers fly, and there's another burst of TYPING. He studies what he's written, then--
LODGE - DAY: PAUL--exiting his cabin. He stops, makes a snowball, throws it, hitting a sign.
PAUL: Still got it. He throws a suitcase into the trunk of his '65 MUSTANG and, holding his leather case, he hops into the car and drives away.
THE ROAD: Snow is piling up.
HOLD ON THE CAR A MOMENT: There is still the sound of the WIND, and there is still the music coming from the tape, perhaps the only part of the car left undamaged. Nothing moves inside. There is only the WIND and the TAPE. The wind gets louder.
CAMERA MOVES IN TO: PAUL. He's inside and doing his best to fight is, but his consciousness is going. He tries to keep his eyes open but they're slits. Slowly, he manages to reach out with his left arm for his briefcase-- --and he clutches it to his battered body. The MUSIC continues on. But PAUL is far from listening. His eyes flutter, flutter again. Now they're starting to close. The man is dying. Motionless, he still clutches the battered briefcase. HOLD ON THE CASE. Then--
SINDELL (O.S.): What's that?
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: We are in New York City in the office of Paul's literary agent, MARCIA SINDELL. The walls of the large room are absolutely crammed with book and movie posters, in English and all other kinds of other languages, all of them featuring the character of MISERY CHASTAIN, a perfectly beautiful woman. Misery's Challenge, Misery's Triumph--eight of them. All written by Paul Sheldon.
PAUL: An old friend. I was rummaging through a closet and it was just sitting there. Like it was waiting for me.
SINDELL: (searching for a compliment) It's... it's nice, Paul. It's got... character.
PAUL: When I wrote my first book, I used to carry it around in this while I was looking for a publisher. That was a good book, Marcia. I was a writer then.
SINDELL: You're still a writer.
PAUL: I haven't been a writer since I got into the Misery business--
SINDELL: (holding up the cover art of MISERY'S CHILD) Not a bad business. This thing would still be growing, too. The first printing order on Misery's Child was the most ever--over a million.
PAUL: Marcia, please.
SINDELL: No, no. Misery Chastain put braces on your daughter's teeth and is putting her through college, bought you two houses and floor seats to the Knick games and what thanks does she get? You go and kill her.
PAUL: Marcia, you know I started "Misery" on a lark. Do I look like a guy who writes romance novels? Do I sound like Danielle Steel? It was a one- time shot and we got lucky. I never meant it to become my life. And if I hadn't gotten rid of her now, I'd have ended up writing her forever. (touches his briefcase) For the first time in fifteen years, I think I'm really onto something here.
SINDELL: I'm glad to hear that, Paul, I really am. But you have to know--when your fans find out that you killed off their favorite heroine, they're not going to say, "Ooh, good, Paul Sheldon can finally write what we've always wanted: An esoteric, semi- autobiographical character study.
PAUL: (passionately) Marcia, why are you doing this to me? Don't you know I'm scared enough? Don't you think I remember how nobody gave a shit about my first books? You think I'm dying to go back to shouting in the wilderness? (beat) I'm doing this because I have to. (Marcia is stopped) Now, I'm leaving for Colorado to try to finish this and I want your good thoughts--because if I can make it work ... (beat) I might just have something that I want on my tombstone. On the word "tombstone"
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: A BUNDLED-UP FIGURE gently beginning to pull PAUL and the case from the car. For a moment, it's hard to tell if it's a man or woman-- --not to let the cat out of the bag or anything, but it is, very much, a woman. Her name is ANNIE WILKES and she is close to Paul's age. She is in many ways a remarkable creature. Strong, self-sufficient, passionate in her likes and dislikes, loves and hates.
ANNIE: (Their lips touch again. Then--) You hear me--Breathe! I said breathe!!!
PAUL: (hardly able to whisper) ...where... am I...? ANNIE is quickly by his side.
ANNIE: (so gently) Shhh... we're just outside Silver Creek.
PAUL: How long...?
ANNIE: You've been here two days. You're gonna be okay. (relieved) My name is Annie Wilkes and I'm--
PAUL: --my number one fan. And now the gibberish words make sense.
ANNIE: That's right. I'm also a nurse. Here. (Now, as she brings the pills close) Take these. She helps him to swallow, as Paul's eyes close.
ANNIE: Here.
PAUL: What are they...?
ANNIE: They're called Novril--they're for your pain. (helps him take them) ANNIE applies a cool rag to his forehead.
PAUL: Shouldn't I be in a hospital?
ANNIE: The  blizzard was too strong. I couldn't risk trying to get you there. I tried calling, but the phone lines are down. PAUL tries to test his left arm.
ANNIE: (Gently, her fingers go to his eyelids, close them) Now you mustn't tire yourself. You've got to rest, you almost died.
ANNIE (O.S.): Open wide.
PAUL'S ROOM: He lies in bed. His fever is gone, but he's terribly weak.
ANNIE: Your legs just sing grand opera when you move, don't they? (Paul says nothing, but his pain is clear) It's not going to hurt forever, Paul, I promise you.
PAUL: Will I be able to walk?
ANNIE: Of course you will. And your arm will be fine, too. Your shoulder was dislocated pretty badly, but I finally popped it back in there. (proudly) But what I'm most proud of is the work I did on those legs. Considering what I had around the house, I don't think there's a doctor who could have done any better. And now suddenly she flicks off the blankets, uncovering his body.
ANNIE: It's not nearly as bad as it looks. You have a compound fracture of the tibia in both legs, and the fibula in the left leg is fractured too. I could hear the bones moving, so it's best for your legs to remain immobile. And as soon as the roads open, I'll take you to a hospital.
ANNIE: In the meantime, you've got a lot of recovering to do, and I consider it an honor that you'll do it in my home. HOLD on her ecstatic face. Then--
SINDELL: This is Marcia Sindell calling from New York City. I'd like to speak to the Silver Creek Chief of Police or the Sheriff.
MALE VOICE (O.S.): Which one do you want?
SINDELL: Whichever one's not busy.
SMALL OFFICE IN SILVER CREEK: ...with a view of the mountains. A MARVELOUS LOOKING MAN sits at a desk, by himself, holding the phone. In his sixties, he's still as bright, fast and sassy as he was half-a-lifetime ago. Never mind what his name is, everyone calls him BUSTER.
BUSTER: I'm pretty sure they 're both not busy, Ms. Sindell, since they're both me. I also happen to be President of the Policeman's Benefit Association, Chairman of the Patrolman's Retirement Fund, and if you need a good fishing guide, you could do a lot worse; call me Buster, everybody does, what can I do for you?
SINDELL: I'm a literary agent, and I feel like a fool calling you, but I think one of my clients, Paul Sheldon, might be in some kind of trouble.
BUSTER: Paul Sheldon? You mean Paul Sheldon the writer?
SINDELL: Yes.
BUSTER: He's your client, huh?
SINDELL: Yes, he is.
BUSTER'S OFFICE: He rolls a penny across the back of one hand--he's very good at it, doesn't even look while he does it.
BUSTER: People sure like those Misery books.
SINDELL: I'm sure you know Paul's been going to the Silver Creek Lodge for years to finish his books.
BUSTER: Yeah, I understand he's been up here the last six weeks.
SINDELL: Not quite. I just called, and they said he checked out five days ago. Isn't that a little strange?
BUSTER: I don't know. Does he always phone you when he checks out of hotels?
SINDELL: No, no, of course not. It's just that his daughter hasn't heard from him, and when he's got a book coming out, he usually keeps in touch. So when there was no word from him...
BUSTER: You think he might be missing?
SINDELL: (shakes her head) I hate that I made this call--tell me I'm being silly.
BUSTER: Just a little over-protective, maybe. (beat) Tell you what--nothing's been reported out here-- (he puts Paul Sheldon's name with a ? on a 3 x 5 CARD) --but I'll put his name through our system. (he tacks the card to a bulletin board) And if anything turns up, I'll call you right away.
SINDELL: I appreciate that. Thanks a lot.
BUSTER: G'bye, Ms. Sindell. As he hangs up--
VIRGINIA: We actually got a phone call. Busy morning.
BUSTER: (smiles) Work, work, work. (gives her a hug) Virginia? When was that blizzard?
VIRGINIA: Four or five days ago. Why?
BUSTER: (a beat) ...no reason... HOLD ON BUSTER for a moment.
PAUL'S VOICE: (soft) I guess it was kind of a miracle... you finding me... ANNIE's soft, sweet laughter is heard. She stands over him, finishing shaving him with a very sharp straight razor. She wears what we will come to know as her regular costume--plain wool skirts, grey cardigan sweaters.
ANNIE: No, it wasn't a miracle at all... in a way, I was following you.
PAUL: Following me? ANNIE concentrates on shaving him with great care; she has wonderful, strong hands.
ANNIE: (explaining, normally) Well, it wasn't any secret to me that you were staying at the Silver Creek, seeing as how I'm your number- one fan and all. Some nights I'd just tool on down there, sit outside and look up at the light in your cabin-- (gently moves his head back, exposing his neck; this next is said with total sincerity, almost awe) and I'd try to imagine what was going on in the room of the world's greatest writer.
PAUL: Say that last part again, I didn't quite hear--
ANNIE: (smiles) Don't move now--wouldn't want to hurt this neck-- (shaving away) Well, the other afternoon I was on my way home, and there you were, leaving the Lodge, and I wondered why a literary genius would go for a drive when there was a big storm coming.
PAUL: I didn't know it was going to be a big storm.
ANNIE: Lucky for you, I did. (pauses) Lucky for me too. Because now you're alive and you can write more books. Oh, Paul, I've read everything of Yours, but the Misery novels...
ANNIE: I know them all by heart, Paul, all eight of them. I love them so.
PAUL: You're very kind...
ANNIE: And you're very brilliant, and you must be a good man, or you could never have created such a wondrous, loving creature as Misery Chastain. (runs her fingers over his cheek) Like a baby. (smiles) All done. (starts to dab away the last bits of soap) ANNIE starts cleaning up.
PAUL: When do you think the phone lines'll be back up? I have to call my daughter, and I should call New York and let my agent know I'm breathing.
ANNIE: It shouldn't be too much longer. (gently) Once the roads are open, the lines'll be up in no time. If you give me their numbers, I'll keep trying them for you. (suddenly almost embarrassed) Could I ask you a favor? (Paul nods) I noticed in your case there was a new Paul Sheldon book and... (hesitant) and I wondered if maybe... (her voice trails off)
PAUL: You want to read it?
ANNIE: (quietly) If you wouldn't mind.
PAUL: I have a hard and fast rule about who can read my stuff at this early stage--only my editor, my agent, and anyone who saves me from freezing to death in a car wreck.
ANNIE: (genuinely thrilled) You'll never realize what a rare treat you've given me.
ANNIE: Boy, it's like clockwork, the way your pain comes--I'll get you your Novril, Paul. Forgive me for prattling away and making you feel all oogy. She turns and goes out of the room.
ANNIE: What's your new book called?
PAUL: I don't have a title yet.
ANNIE: What's it about?
PAUL: (fast) It's crazy, but I don't really know, I mean I haven't written anything but "Misery" for so long that--you read it you can tell me what you think it's about. Maybe you can come up with a title.
ANNIE: (in the doorway) Oh, like I could do that?
THE MANAGER'S OFFICE AT THE SILVER CREEK LODGE: Small, neat, one window--outside, snow covers all. BUSTER AND LIBBY, THE MANAGER, are going over books and records. Libby is an old guy, walks with a cane.
LIBBY: Nothing unusual about Mr. Sheldon's leaving, Buster--you can tell by the champagne.
BUSTER: Maybe you can, Libby.
LIBBY: No, see, he always ordered a bottle of Dom Perignon when he was ready to go. Then he'd pay up and be out the door.
BUSTER: No long-distance phone calls, Federal Express packages--anything at all out of the ordinary?
LIBBY: (head shake) I don't think Mr. Sheldon likes for things to be out of the ordinary. Considering who he is and all, famous and all, he doesn't have airs. Drives the same car out from New York each time--'65 Mustang--said it helps him think. He was always a good guest, never made a noise, never bothered a soul. Sure hope nothing happened to him.
BUSTER: So do I...
LIBBY: I'll bet that old Mustang's pulling into New York right now.
BUSTER: I'm sure you're right. But you can tell he's not sure at all as we
PAUL'S ROOM.: He lies in bed. Sun comes in the lone window. ANNIE sits on the bed, a large bowl of soup in her hands, feeding him.
ANNIE: (almost shy about this) I know I'm only forty pages into your book, but... She stops, fills the spoon up again.
PAUL: But what?
ANNIE: Nothing.
PAUL: No, what is it?
ANNIE: Oh, it's ridiculous, who am I to make a criticism to someone like you?
PAUL: I can take it, go ahead.
ANNIE: Well, it's brilliantly written, but then everything you write is brilliant.
PAUL: Pretty rough so far.
ANNIE: (a burst) The swearing, Paul. (beat) There, I said it.
PAUL: The profanity bothers you?
ANNIE: It has no nobility.
PAUL: Well, these are slum kids, I was a slum kid, everybody talks like that.
ANNIE: They do not. What do you think I say when I go to the feed store in town? "Now, Wally, give me a bag of that effing pigfeed and ten pounds of that bitchly cow-corn"-- PAUL is amused by this.
ANNIE: --and in the bank do I tell Mrs. Bollinger, "Here's one big bastard of a check, give me some of your Christing money."
ANNIE: (seeing the spill, suddenly upset) There! Look there! See what you made me do!
ANNIE: Oh, Paul, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Sometimes I get so worked up. Can you ever forgive me? Here... She hands him his pills and starts to clean the soup off the coverlet. Then she makes the sweetest smile.
ANNIE: I love you, Paul. (more embarrassed than ever) Your mind. Your creativity--that's all I meant. Flustered, she turns away as we--
INSIDE THE CAR: BUSTER AND HIS WIFE VIRGINIA: Virginia is driving while Buster intently studies the terrain. He reaches for a large thermos, pours some coffee, offers it to her. She shakes her head. He begins to sip it.
VIRGINIA: This sure is fun. She puts her hand on his leg.
BUSTER: (removing it) Virginia, when you're in this car, you're not my wife, you're my deputy.
VIRGINIA: Well, this deputy would rather be home under the covers with the Sheriff.
BUSTER: (suddenly) Stop--stop right here.
VIRGINIA: What? What is it?
BUSTER: Look at that broken branch there...
VIRGINIA: Could be the weight of the snow.
BUSTER: Could be--or a rotten branch or a mountain lion could have landed on it. Could be a lot of things. He steps off the road, starts down.
VIRGINIA: Anything down there?
BUSTER'S VOICE (O.S.): Yeah. An enormous amount of snow.
CUT TO:: VIRGINIA, on the road as Buster makes his way back up, still ticked.
VIRGINIA: (they move to the car) You really think Sheldon's out there?
BUSTER: Hope not--if he is, he's dead. Let's go to the newspaper office. As they get in the car-- ANOTHER CAR DRIVING BY--it's Annie in her Jeep--neither she nor Buster notice each other.
PAUL'S ROOM: The door opens and ANNIE enters.
ANNIE: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to wake you.
PAUL: It's fine.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Paul's eyes fluttering awake to see the hardback copy of his novel, Misery's Child, in Annie's hands. She's never been more excited--
ANNIE: They had it at the store, Paul, there was a whole batch of them there. As soon as I saw it, I slammed my money down. I got the first copy.
PAUL: Then the roads are open...
ANNIE: The one to town is, but that's about it. I called the hospital and talked to the head orthopedic surgeon. I told him who you were and what had happened. He said as long as there's no infection, you're not in any danger, and as soon as the road to the hospital is open, they'll send an ambulance for you.
PAUL: The phones are working?
ANNIE: Well, mine's still out. But the ones in town were working just fine. I called that agent of yours. (soft now) Oh, Paul, I peeked at the very beginning. (looks at him) What a wonderful first page--just to read the name Misery Chastain...
PAUL: My daughter must be going nuts.
ANNIE: ...it's like a visit from my oldest, dearest friend.
PAUL: I was supposed to be home for her birthday three days ago.
ANNIE: Your agent said she would tell her you were okay. But I'm afraid you'll have to wait until tomorrow if you want to speak to her yourself. She starts to leave, stops at the door.
ANNIE: (She looks at him now with almost a look of amazement) Oh, Paul, what a poet you are... As she leaves--
ANNIE: I made you my speciality--scrambled eggs a la Wilkes. And I'm on page
PAUL: I guess that means it's okay.
ANNIE: No. No, it isn't, it's-- (halts) --oh pooh, I can't think of any words. Would "great" be insulting?
PAUL: I can live with "great." He starts, with effort, to eat.
ANNIE: (as she turns, goes) No, it's not just great, it's perfect, a perfect, perfect thing.
PAUL'S ROOM. MID-AFTERNOON: ANNIE is clearing Paul's tray. She hands him his Novril; he quickly swallows them.
ANNIE: I'm up to page 185. I always get sad when I pass the halfway point. Will you do me a favor? I'd love it if you would autograph my copy. I already have your autograph on a picture, but it would mean so much to me to get it in person. I know you're right- handed, so don't worry if it's not so legible. I'll cherish it anyway. As PAUL signs the book:
ANNIE: I don't mean to pry, but I've read in two magazines now where you were seeing this model who does those disgusting jeans commercials. And I said it can't be true. Paul Sheldon would never waste his time with a trampy woman like that.
PAUL: Well, you can't believe everything you read in magazines.
ANNIE: I knew it. I knew it wasn't true. Boy, how do they get away with printing stuff like that?
PAUL: You'd be amazed at what some people will believe. He finishes the autograph, hands the book back to her.
ANNIE: Thank you so much.
PAUL: My pleasure.
ANNIE: I thought it was time you two should meet. Paul, say hello to my favorite beast in all the world, my sow, Misery.
PAUL: Misery?
ANNIE: Yes. I told you I was your number- one fan.
PAUL: I'm getting to believe you.
ANNIE: This farm was getting kind of dreary, what with just the few cows and chickens and me-- (happy) But when I got Misery here, everything Changed--she just makes me smile so.
PAUL: She's a fine... uh... pig is what she is...
ANNIE: (scooping up the pig, holding it tight as she stands by Paul) I'm on page three-hundred now, Paul, and it's better than perfect--it's divine. What's the ceiling that dago painted?
PAUL: The Sistine Chapel?
ANNIE: Yeah, that and Misery's Child--those are the only two divine things ever in this world... PAUL watches as the pig skitters out of the room with ANNIE in pursuit, happily imitating the pig.
ANNIE: Woink! Whoink! Whuh-Whuh-WHOINK!
THE WINDOW. DUSK.: ANNIE'S VOICE is heard softly.
ANNIE: When my husband left me... I wasn't prepared, it wasn't an easy time...
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: ANNIE, standing at the window, her back to the room. In bed, PAUL is dealing with a bedpan, peeing.
ANNIE: For a while I thought I might go crazy.
PAUL: I know how that can be.
ANNIE: I don't know about you, but what I did to get through it was I dove into work--days, nights--night shifts can be lonely at a hospital. I did a lot of reading. That was hen I first discovered Misery. She made me so happy. She made me forget all my problems. (She smiles now) 'Course, I suppose you had a little something to do with that too. There is a peeing sound.
PAUL: Yeah, well... He is embarrassed.
ANNIE: (She isn't) I just kept reading them over and over. I know when I finish this one-- and I've only got two chapters to go-- I'll just turn right to the front page and start reading it again.
PAUL: I'm...
ANNIE: (She turns around, moves to the bed) Done?
PAUL: Yeah, thanks.
ANNIE: No problem. As she takes the bedpan...
ANNIE: Don't get me wrong. I'm not against marriage per se. But it would take a pretty special guy to make me want to go down the aisle again.
PAUL: Well, it's not something you should enter into lightly.
ANNIE: It boils down to respect. People just don't respect the institution of marriage any more. They have no sense of real commitment.
ANNIE: I'd love to stay here and chat, but I'm right at the end and I gotta find out what happens.
PAUL: Well, I hope you like it.
ANNIE: Of course I'll like it. Misery's about to have her child. What's it gonna be, a boy or a girl? Ooh, don't tell me. With that, she exits.
ANNIE: You...you dirty bird. She can't be dead. Misery Chastain cannot be dead! How could you?
PAUL: Annie, in 1871, women often died in childbirth, but her spirit is the important thing, and Misery's spirit is still alive--
ANNIE: (screaming) I DON'T WANT HER SPIRIT! I want HER! And you MURDERED her!
ANNIE: Then who did?
PAUL: No one--she just died--she slipped away, that's all.
ANNIE: (screaming) She slipped away? She slipped away? She didn't just slip away. You did it. You did it. You did it. You did it. You murdered my Misery. And now she has lifted a chair--it's heavy but she's very strong--and she raises it and turns on Paul, and it's high above her head, and PAUL realizes that this might be it, she might shatter him with it, crunch his skull--and that's just what she seems she's about to do--and then she swings it, not against him but against the wall, and it shatters and she's panting from the effort as she turns on him again, her voice surprisingly soft.
ANNIE: I thought you were good, Paul, but you're not good, you're just another lying old dirty birdie and I don't think I better be around you for awhile. (she crosses to the door, then stops) And don't even think about anybody coming for you, not the doctors, not your agent, not your family--because I never called them. Nobody knows you're here. And you better hope nothing happens to me because if I die, you die.
THE ROOM: PAUL lies still. He looks around the room and listens for sounds. All he hears are the SOUNDS OF A WINTER NIGHT in the mountains. After a few beats, he takes a deep breath and then begins his greatest effort of all: to force his body out of bed, to make it move. He's still weak from what he's endured, but that's not the main thing: it's the pain. Any attempt at movement and his legs scream. He sags back, lies there still a moment. Slowly he tries to maneuver his body off the bed. He rolls over onto his stomach, then tries to lower himself onto the floor by moving down head first. His good arm hits the floor, and he is able to hold himself up but, realizing there is no way to get out of bed without causing tremendous pain, he girds himself and flings himself out of bed and comes crashing to the floor. The pain is excruciating. After he regains his composure, he slowly crawls toward the door. He reaches up and tries the handle. It is, in fact, locked. He awkwardly tries to slam up against the door, but it is much too painful and to no avail. He crawls back over to the bed, realizes there's no way to climb back in, then grabs the blanket from the bed, wraps it around himself, and closes his eyes.
BUSTER'S OFFICE. DAY.: He sits alone at his desk on the telephone, staring at the Rocky Mountain Gazette spread in front of him.
THE NEWSPAPER'S FRONT PAGE: In a prominent spot on the top is what is most likely a book- jacket photo of Paul. Above the picture is the following:
"HAVE YOU SEEN PAUL SHELDON?": BUSTER is on the phone with Marcia Sindell.
BUSTER: No, Ms. Sindell, there's no point in coming up here now. Everything that can be done is... Yes, we're working closely with the state police, and the FBI has been informed. Right... Right... As soon as we know anything we'll let you know. No, it's no bother. Call anytime. Bye, Ms. Sindell. VIRGINIA enters, carrying some files.
VIRGINIA: Here's the list of all Sheldon's credit charges. Nothing after the Silver Creek. (With a glance at his dour face, she indicates the photo) Any calls?
BUSTER: Just from his agent.
ANNIE: What are you doing on the floor? (crossing to the bed) It's my fault. If I'd had a proper hospital bed, this never would have happened. Here, let me help you back in. (She lifts him back into the bed, which causes considerable pain) I know this hurts, but it'll only take a few seconds. There you go. Comfy?
PAUL: (in pain) Perfect.
ANNIE: You're such a kidder. I have a big surprise for you. But first there's something you must do.
PAUL: I don't suppose I could have a little snack while I wait for the surprise?
ANNIE: I'll get you everything you want, but you must listen first. Sometimes my thinking is a little muddy, I accept that. It's why I couldn't remember all those things they were asking me on the witness stand in Denver. Now she turns, goes to the doorway, keeping on talking. She is never out of sight.
ANNIE: But this time I thought clearly. I asked God about you and God said "I delivered him unto you so that you may show him the way."
PAUL: Show me the way?
ANNIE: Yes. She exits and re-enters wheeling something toward his bed. It's a charcoal barbecue, the kind you use in summer for cooking hamburgers. She holds several items in her arms: a box of Diamond Blue Tip wooden matches, a can of lighter fluid. And most noticeably, Paul's manuscript.
PAUL: When I mentioned a snack, I was thinking more along the lines of a cheese and crackers kind of thing.
ANNIE: Paul, this is no time for jokes. You must rid the world of this filth. She hands him the box of kitchen matches.
PAUL: You want me to burn my book?
ANNIE: (she nods) Yes.
PAUL: You want me to burn my book?
ANNIE: I know this may be difficult for you, but it's for the best.
PAUL: This isn't difficult, my agent's made dozens of copies. There's gonna be an auction on this, and every publishing house in New York is reading it now. So if you want me to burn it, fine. You're not ridding the world of anything.
ANNIE: (quietly) Then light the match, Paul.
PAUL: No big deal.
ANNIE: So you've indicated. Do it.
ANNIE: I know this is the only copy, Paul. When you were twenty-four you wrote your first book and you didn't make a copy, because you didn't think anybody would take it seriously. But they did. And ever since you've never made any copies because you're superstitious--it's why you always come back to the Silver Creek Lodge. You told that story to Merv Griffin eleven years ago.
PAUL: You know, Annie, this book never would have survived without you. When it gets to new York, there will be a big auction, and whatever it brings we can split. (pause) God knows you're entitled to it.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul. This isn't about money. It's about decency and purity. It's about God's values.
PAUL: You're right. You're right. I don't know what I was thinking. I'll tell you what. It doesn't have to be published. Nobody ever has to see it. I'll just keep it for myself. No one will ever have to know it exists.
ANNIE: As long as it does exist, your mind won't ever be free. I think you should light the match, Paul. There is a long silence. PAUL doesn't move.
ANNIE: Can't you see it's what God wants? She's holding the can of lighter fluid in her hand as she speaks and absentmindedly flicks a few drops of the fluid on the bed.
ANNIE: You're so brilliant. I would think you'd certainly be able to see that. (More drops fall on the bed) We're put on this earth to help people, Paul. Like I'm trying to help you. PAUL watches as the fluid continues to drop on the bed.
ANNIE: Please let me help you.
ANNIE: You're doing the right thing, Paul.
ANNIE: (crying out) Goodness!
ANNIE: Goodness--Goodness--Oh, my gracious-- And she starts trying to catch them.
ANNIE: Well, isn't that an oogy mess? As she starts to wheel the barbecue out, suddenly there is a new and different sound as we
INSIDE THE HELICOPTER: BUSTER and a PILOT are in the machine. Buster has a pair of binoculars looped around his neck, a map rumpled in his lap.
BUSTER: (pointing out) That's the Steadman place up there. (The pilot nods. Buster points again) The only other place up here is the Wilkes farm. Another nod. The PILOT points down. BUSTER stares through the binoculars. WHAT HE SEES: ANNIE'S JEEP parked in front of her house.
BUSTER: That's no '65 Mustang. There's nothing else out this way--circle on back. As the pilot starts to change direction
ANNIE: I do believe the winters are getting shorter and shorter every year. People say it has something to do with the ozone layer. What do you think?
PAUL: I don't know.
ANNIE: Yeah, well, it's a theory. Here's your Novril. (she wheels the barbecue to the door; stops) How does tuna casserole sound for dinner?
PAUL: Great. She exits. PAUL takes the two Novril, stares at them, then deliberately tucks them under his mattress.
PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT.: As PAUL is finishing the last of his tuna casserole. There are two Novrils on his tray. We hear strains of TV GAME SHOW THEME MUSIC. These sounds are not surprising. Paul has heard them before.
ANNIE'S ROOM. NIGHT.: It is much smaller than Paul's and filled with religious bric-a-brac, pictures of Paul Sheldon, and a TV on a portable stand. Annie lies in bed, with an open bag of Cheetos resting on her stomach and a big quart-sized plastic bottle of Coke on the nightstand. As she munches away, she is heavily engrossed in her favorite TV show, "The Love Connection." As Chuck Woolery extracts the embarrassing details of a couple's romantic interlude, we
FARMHOUSE: Coming up to dawn.
ANNIE: See, isn't this nice?
PAUL: Great. I've always wanted to visit the other side of the room.
ANNIE: And look what I've got for you. An electric razor so you can shave yourself now.
PAUL: If I knew this was gonna be the surprise, you could've gotten me to burn all my books.
ANNIE: (She hands him some Novril) Now don't josh. This is a very big day for you, Paul. Here. You just sit tight, and I'll set everything up. ANNIE exits.
PAUL: Set what up?
ANNIE: That's the big surprise. Your new studio--after all, writers do need a place to work.
PAUL: Work? You mean write? What in the world do you think I'd write?
ANNIE: Oh, but Paul! (flushed) I don't think, I know! Now that you've gotten rid of that nasty manuscript, you can go back to doing what you're great at-- (beat) --you're going to write a new novel-- your greatest achievement ever-- Misery's Return.
PAUL: (after a beat) Misery's Return?
ANNIE: I know you didn't mean it when you killed her, and now you'll make it right.
ANNIE: Yes. It will be a book in my honor. For saving your life and nursing you back to health. I'll be the first one to read it. (beat) Oh, Paul, you're going to make me the envy of the whole world...
PAUL: You just expect me to whip something off, that it?
ANNIE: (nods) I expect nothing less than your masterpiece.
PAUL: You do understand that this isn't the ordinary way books get written-- I mean, some people might actually consider this an oddball situation. She rolls him over to a table she has set up by the window.
ANNIE: I have total confidence in your brilliance--besides, the view will inspire you.
ANNIE: You just inhale that. I'll be right back.
PAUL: (calling out) I guess you don't get bothered by neighbors much.
ANNIE: Don't worry about that. You'll have total solitude so you can concentrate on your work.
PAUL: Great.
ANNIE: I got you this expensive paper to type on.
ANNIE: (putting the rest of the paper on the table) And I got a great deal on this fifty- pound clunker--on account of it's missing an "n." I told the saleslady "n" was one of the letters in my favorite writer's name.
PAUL: It's two of the letters in my favorite nurse's name, Annie.
ANNIE: (embarrassed, blushing) You--fooler...! (turns, grabs up pens, pencils, paper) Did I do good?
PAUL: (gesturing to the box of paper) You did great, except there's just one little thing--I can't work with this paper. It's Corrasable Bond, it smudges. Maybe you could go back into town and bring me some white, long-grained mimeo.
ANNIE: But mine cost the most so I don't see how it could smudge.
PAUL: (quickly taking a sheet of paper, making a pencil mark on it) C'mere, I'll show you. As she approaches, he rubs his thumb over the pencil mark.
ANNIE: (looking at it) Well, it does smudge after all--isn't that fascinating?
PAUL: I thought you'd be interested. I'd like you to be in on everything, Annie. Not just the finished book, but how it's written.
ANNIE: Thank you for thinking of me. (She can be so charming when she wants) Anything else I can get while I'm in town? Any other crucial requirements that need satisfying? Would you like a tiny tape recorder? Or maybe a handmade set of writing slippers?
PAUL: No, just the paper will be fine.
ANNIE: (suddenly very agitated) Are you sure? 'Cause if you want, I'll bring back the whole store for you.
PAUL: Annie, what's the matter?
ANNIE: What's the matter? I'll tell you what's the matter. I go out of my way for you. I do everything to try and make you happy. I feed you, I clean you, I dress you. And what thanks do I get? "You bought the wrong paper, Annie. I can't write on this paper, Annie." Well, I'll get your stupid paper, but you just better start showing me a little more appreciation around here, Mister Man. With that, she throws the ream of paper in PAUL'S LAP, causing considerable pain.
PAUL: (furious) Shit...
PAUL: You've written how to do this--now do it!
PAUL: (amazed) What do you know, it actually works.
PAUL: What a surprise. He looks off into the living room, and...
PAUL: Operator... (nothing)
...OPERATOR...: (wildly frustrated) ...Shit! He shakes the phone. It's terribly light. He picks it up, turns it over--it's hollow, just a shell of a telephone. He stares at it for a long moment, shaking his head, the disappointment plain.
PAUL: You crazy bitch... He puts the phone back on the table.
THE GENERAL STORE. DAY.: Annie exits the store, carrying new paper, hops into her Cherokee and drives off.
THE HALLWAY.: Out in the hallway, on his way toward the kitchen, PAUL notices a door to his right. He wheels over and surprisingly it opens. However, this is not a door to the outside of the house, only a storage pantry. He looks around--nothing but canned goods, potato chips, cereals and large plastic Coke containers, etc. Just as he is about to close the door, he notices an open cardboard box. He opens the flap and sees all kinds of prescription drugs. Among them are a couple of strips of Novril encapsulated in blisters. He grabs them and stuffs them into his sweatpants. Now he closes the pantry door and heads to the kitchen.
THE KITCHEN: As PAUL approaches it. He starts to wheel his way in, but he has trouble. He backs up slightly, wheels forward again-- --but the door is too narrow for the chair to fit through. He pounds his fists on the chair arm, staring as we
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Sitting on the counter: A SET OF CARVING KNIVES sticking out of a slotted wooden block. They seem to be out of reach, but that doesn't stop him. He starts to crawl over to the counter.
THE ROAD: ANNIE is driving along in her Cherokee. She is heading home.
THE KITCHEN: Now at the counter, PAUL tries to pull himself up with his one good arm, but even though he is able to chin himself up to the top of the counter, he is still unable to reach the knives. He makes a desperate attempt which sends him crashing to the floor. As he starts to force his way up again--from outside there comes a sound--the motor of a car.
OUTSIDE ANNIE'S: ANNIE, driving up to the house.
THE KITCHEN: PAUL, throwing himself back to the floor, starting a wild crawl back across the kitchen toward the wheelchair and
OUTSIDE ANNIE'S: ANNIE, getting out of her Jeep and
KITCHEN: PAUL, crawling, crawling and
OUTSIDE ANNIE'S: ANNIE, walking around to the back of the Jeep and
KITCHEN: PAUL, scrambling wildly up into his wheelchair, starting to get it turned and
ANNIE'S: ANNIE, opening the back of the Jeep and lifting out several rectangular boxes of paper and
ANNIE (V.O.): (her voice from the hallway, close and growing closer) Paul, I've got your paper.
ANNIE: Just the kind you asked for. And as the door opens--
ANNIE: Paul, you're dripping with perspiration, your color is very hectic--what have you been doing?
PAUL: You know goddamn well what I've been doing--I'VE BEEN SITTING HERE SUFFERING. I need my pills.
ANNIE: (tenderly, as she starts toward him) Poor dear... Let's get you back in bed and I'll get them for you.
PAUL: (exploding--a real child's tantrum) I want my pills NOW!
ANNIE: It'll only take a second.
PAUL: I want my pain to go 'way, Annie-- make it go 'way, please Annie-- (She looks at him-- you can't tell if she's buying it or not) --please...
ANNIE: (upset) It just breaks my heart to see you like this...
CUT TO:: PAUL watching, and the instant she is out the door in the hallway, he stuffs the Novril into his pants.
ANNIE (O.S.): (coming closer) I've done a lot of thinking on the drive...
ANNIE: ...and I'm absolutely convinced that the main reason I've never been more popular is because of my temper. You must be so mad at me. The truth now. She hands him the pills. And rolls him over to the bed.
PAUL: Well, I don't  hold grudges. After all, who doesn't let off a little steam once in a while.
ANNIE: My genius needs his rest before he writes. She hands him a pad and pencil.
ANNIE: Here, in case you think of any ideas.
PAUL: Yeah, well I wouldn't expect too much.
ANNIE: Don't be silly. You'll be brilliant. Think of me as your inspiration.
ANNIE: I have faith in you... (beat) ...my darling... On that she turns--for the first time, a coquettish look comes to her face.
ANNIE: Catch this-- (she throws him a kiss--it's grotesque) --ummmm-wahhhh.
INSIDE THE HELICOPTER: BUSTER AND PILOT flying along. Buster is all bundled up as he stares out, using the binoculars...
BUSTER: (to Pilot) Walter, we could be skipping lunch today.
CRASH SITE: Paul's car being hoisted by chains from the ground and, as it starts to rise up into the afternoon air...
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: THE AREA BY THE CAR--BUSTER is there and a bunch of STATE POLICEMEN and various MEDIA PEOPLE are there--Buster stands with the STATE POLICE CHIEF watching as the car is hoisted via derrick; the sound of the powerful MOTOR lifting the car is enormous and as the car keeps rising higher and higher and PEOPLE take pictures and stare and
STATE POLICE CHIEF: The presumption must now be that Paul Sheldon is dead. We know he somehow crawled out of his car. But we have been unable to locate his body in the vicinity of the crash. We also know if anyone had found him, they would have taken him to an area hospital. His body is undoubtedly out there buried somewhere in the snow. We'll find him after the first thaw--unless the animals have gotten to him first. (beat) I'll take questions. After the first sentence, a very cold and very unhappy BUSTER leaves the gathering.
VIRGINIA: You don't think he's dead, do you?
BUSTER: He might well be. But not the way they say. He didn't crawl out of that car by himself. You saw those dents on the door--someone pulled him out.
VIRGINIA: It was an old car--those dents could have been there forever.
BUSTER: There's two kinds of people that drive around in old cars: the ones that can't afford new ones, and the ones who wouldn't give 'em up for anything in the world. That second bunch don't drive around with twenty- five-year-old dents. As they drive off...
PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT.: PAUL lies in bed listening to the strains of "The Love Connection," coming from upstairs. As Chuck Woolery drones on, Paul is intently involved in folding a piece of paper from his pad. He is making a container of some sort. He finishes, then reaches down and grabs the Novril capsules that he has been stashing in the mattress. Carefully, he opens one and pours it into the palm of his hand. First he smells it--no odor--then he takes a tiny bit on a finger and tastes it--no taste. Then, he takes his paper container and empties the contents of all the pills into it, then places it under the mattress. Now, what to do with the empty capsules. He thinks for a second, then--what the hell--he swallows them. He then places the packet back in the mattress.
THE TYPEWRITER. DAY.: The window is visible behind it. From this angle, it almost seems to be staring at PAUL, broken "n" and all. PAUL tests his wounded arm. He's able to raise it a few inches, but that's it.
OUTSIDE THE WINDOW: ANNIE is visible heading for the barn, followed by MISERY, the pig. For a moment, she stops, turns to look back.
ANNIE: (calling out) Don't be nervous-- (beat) --just remember, I'll treasure whatever you do. Now, as she turns again, moves quickly away--
WHAT HE'S WRITTEN, AND IT'S THIS:: "Misery's Retur ." By Paul Sheldo for A  ie Wilkes.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: PAUL WORKING in his room. ANNIE  enters, the first pages of manuscript in her hands. It's dusk.
ANNIE: I'm sorry, Paul. This is all wrong, you'll have to do it over again.
PAUL: (totally stunned) What? What happened to "I'll treasure whatever you do?"
ANNIE: Paul, it's not worthy of you. Throw it all out except for the part of naming that gravedigger after me. You can leave that in.
PAUL: I really value your criticism, but maybe you're being a little hasty here.
ANNIE: Paul, what you've written just isn't fair.
PAUL: --not fair?
ANNIE: That's right--when I was growing up in Bakersfield, my favorite thing in all the world was to go to the movies on Saturday afternoons for the chapter plays...
PAUL: (it just comes out) --cliff-hangers--
ANNIE: (suddenly angry) I know that, Mister Man--they also call them serials. I'm not stupid, you know. (and she's a child again) Anyway, my favorite was Rocket Man, and once it was a no-brakes chapter, the bad guys stuck him in a car on a mountain road and knocked him out and welded the doors shut and tore out the brakes and started him to his death and he woke up and tried to steer and tried to get out, but the car went off a cliff before he could escape and it crashed and burned and--I was so upset and excited and the next week you better believe I was first in line and they always start with the end of the last week and there was Rocket Man trying to get out, and here came the cliff and JUST BEFORE the car went off he jumped free and all the kids cheered-- (standing up now) --but I didn't cheer, I stood right up and started shouting, "This isn't what happened last week--have you all got amnesia?--THEY JUST CHEATED
US--THIS WASN'T FAIR--": ANNIE: CLOSE UP. Still in her childhood reverie. Shouting:
PAUL: They always cheated like that in cliff-- (stops himself) --chapter plays.
ANNIE: But not you. Not with my Misery. Remember, Ian did ride for Dr. Cleary at the end of the last book, but his horse fell jumping that fence and Ian broke his shoulder and his ribs and lay there all night in the ditch so he never reached the doctor, so there couldn't have been any "experimental blood transfusion" that saved her life. Misery was buried in the ground at the end, Paul, so you'll have to start there. As she goes--
PAUL: Look at this, I've got Lizzie Borden for an editor, here. PAUL slumps, staring barefully at the typewriter.
PAUL'S ROOM. DAY.: PAUL is at the table. He takes the Novril off his breakfast tray, wheels over to the bed, and stuffs them into the mattress. He hears FOOTSTEPS coming down the hall. He smoothly wheels back to the table. A pause. ANNIE enters to remove the tray.
ANNIE: What's the matter, Paul? You haven't written a word.
PAUL: I can't write this anymore.
ANNIE: Don't be silly. Of course you can.
PAUL: I'm telling you, I can't.
ANNIE: You can--you have the "gotta"--
PAUL: The what?
ANNIE: The "gotta." Remember, you talked about it in Playboy magazine. You said there's a million things you can't do in this world; you can't hit a curve ball, you can't fix a leaky faucet or make a marriage work-- but there's one thing you always have, and that's the power of the "gotta."
PAUL: I said that?
ANNIE: You said you can make it so they gotta turn the page. You know, "I 'gotta' know will she live," "I 'gotta' know will he catch the killer." "I gotta see how this chapter ends." You said it. I don't usually buy that magazine. I only got it, 'cause they were interviewing you.
PAUL: (quietly) What about a bee...?
ANNIE: What?
PAUL: Nothing.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: PAUL in the wheelchair watching as ANNIE finishes reading.
PAUL: Well, is it fair? Should I keep going?
ANNIE: You better. Oh, Paul, when Ian realized that the reason they'd buried Misery alive was because the bee sting had put her in that temporary coma--
ANNIE: --and when Gravedigger Wilkes remembered how thirty years earlier, the same thing had happened to Lady Evelyn-Hyde-- (hands clasped) --and then old Dr. Cleary deduced that Misery must be Lady Evelyn-Hyde's long-lost daughter because of the rarity of deadly bee-stings--my heart just leapt.
ANNIE: I've known from the very first book that Misery had to be born of nobility and I was right!
PAUL: (mumbling  to himself) Yeah, yeah...
ANNIE: Oh, Paul, can I read each chapter when you finish? I can fill in the "n"s. (Paul nods, and she's off again) Will she be her old self, now that Ian has dug her out, or will she have amnesia...?
PAUL: ...have to wait.
ANNIE: Will she still love him with that special perfect love?
PAUL: Have to wait.
ANNIE: (plead ing) Not even a hint? Paul shakes his head.
ANNIE: Misery's alive! Misery's alive. Oh, it's so romantic--this whole house is going to be filled with romance. I'm going to put on my Liberace records-- (Stops, looks at Paul) --you do like Liberace, don't you?
PAUL: (quickly) Whenever he played Radio City, who do you think was right there in the front row?
ANNIE: I'm going to play my records all day
LONG: --to inspire you--he's my all-time favorite. And with that, she starts to leave.
PAUL: Annie? She stops at the door.
PAUL: Would you have dinner with me tonight? She can't speak.
PAUL: To celebrate Misery's return. I couldn't have done it without you.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul. It would be an honor. ANNIE dashes excitedly out of the room. PAUL wheels over to the bed, pulls the packet of Novril powder out from the mattress and stuffs it in his pants. The sound of Liberace playing "Tammy" with orchestra and chorus booms in from beyond the door.
PAUL: Jesus Christ.
BUSTER'S OFFICE. DUSK.: VIRGINIA is on the phone.
VIRGINIA: (into phone) No, he's not here. I don't know where he went. He never tells me anything anymore. He's probably out having an affair somewhere. Wait a minute. I think I hear him coming. BUSTER enters carrying a bagful of books.
VIRGINIA: (to Buster) It's Jim Taylor. He wants to know who you've been having an affair with.
BUSTER: Hey, Jim, what's doing? Uh-huh... uh- huh... Jim, we've been over this. If you're gonna have benches in front of your store, people are gonna sit on them. I don't like him either, but I'm not going to come over there and tell him to move. Give my best to Denise. Bye.
VIRGINIA: (looking through the books; all paperback Misery novels) Well, whoever she is, she sure likes to read a lot.
BUSTER: Virginia, I'm flattered you think I got that much energy. I just figured if I can't find Paul Sheldon, at least I can find out what he wrote about.
VIRGINIA: What do you expect to find? A story about a guy who drove his car off a cliff in a snowstorm?
BUSTER: Now, you see, it's that kind of sarcasm that's given our marriage real spice.
STUDY. NIGHT.: PAUL is sitting at a table that Annie has set up with her best china and silverware. It is as romantic as Annie Wilkes gets. ANNIE enters, carrying a basket of rolls. She sits and serves Paul.
ANNIE: I hope you like it.
PAUL: It looks wonderful. And so do you.
ANNIE: Oh... They eat in awkward silence. Finally:
PAUL: I've never had meatloaf this good, what do you do to it?
ANNIE: My secret is I only use fresh tomatoes, never canned. And to give it that little extra zip, I mix in some Spam with the ground beef.
PAUL: Oh. (pause) You can't get this in a restaurant in New York. After another pause:
PAUL: Annie, I think we should have a toast.
ANNIE: A toast?
PAUL: Yes, to Misery. Let me pour you some more wine. Paul pours more of the Gallo wine, then raises his glass.
ANNIE: To Misery.
PAUL: Wait, let's do this right. Do you have any candles?
ANNIE: Oh, I don't know. I think so. I'll go look. She exits into the kitchen. PAUL quickly pulls the packet filled with Novril powder from his pants. He empties it into her glass of wine, stuffs the empty packet back into his pants, talking the whole time:
PAUL: Did you study decorating, or do you just have a flair?
ANNIE: Oh, you. I just picked things up over the years.
PAUL: Well, it certainly says you.
ANNIE: You really think so?
PAUL: Absolutely. Listen, if you can't find any, it's okay. I just thought it might be nice. ANNIE re-enters with a candle.
ANNIE: Are you kidding? If anyone ever told me that one day I'd be having a candlelit dinner with Paul Sheldon in my own house, I woulda checked both legs to see which one was being pulled. Will this do?
PAUL: It's perfect. She places the candle on the table. With a slight tremor in her hand, she lights the candle. PAUL raises his glass.
PAUL: To Misery and Annie Wilkes, who brought her back to life. ANNIE raises her glass.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul, every time I think about it, I get goosebumps. They clink glasses. And with that, her emotions having gotten the best of her, she knocks over the candle. In trying to right the situation, she places her glass back down, and as she reaches for the candle, she knocks over her glass, spilling the wine.
ANNIE: (wiping up the spilled wine with her napkin) Oh, God, what have I done? I'm so sorry, Paul. I ruined your beautiful toast. Will you ever forgive me? Here, let me pour another one. (she does) Can we pretend this never happened? To Misery?
PAUL: To Misery. So they drink their wine.
OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE. DAY.: The snow, although still present, has melted somewhat. And starting now and continuing throughout is this: the sound of typing.
PAUL'S ROOM: PAUL, working at his typewriter.
ANNIE'S BEDROOM. DUSK.: ANNIE, in her room. Reading and loving it.
BUSTER'S DEN. NIGHT.: BUSTER sitting in his den reading a Misery novel by the fire. VIRGINIA brings him a cup of tea.
PAUL'S ROOM. DAY.: PAUL, the sling off, moving his injured arm. It's more mobile than before. Testing his strength, he uses his arm to remove the page and place it on the pile. He puts in another page and continues to type.
ANNIE: Paul, this is positively the best Misery you've ever written.
PAUL: I think you're right.
OUTSIDE THE BARN: ANNIE, out by the barn. She stares in at the house. Framed in the window is PAUL, working. She smiles, enters the barn.
PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT.: He stretches but only briefly, then back to his typing.
THE KITCHEN: ANNIE, cooking happily away, reading a chapter.
PAUL'S ROOM: PAUL, arm out of the sling. He manages to lift the typewriter once, sets it back down, puts the sling back on.
PAUL'S ROOM. LATER.: ANNIE, bringing a tray of food.
ANNIE: I think it's so wonderful that Misery would sacrifice her title to take up the cause of her people. That's true nobility. Paul hands her some new pages. As she exits,
BUSTER'S OFFICE: BUSTER, in his office reading. He is alone.
ANNIE'S LIVING ROOM. NIGHT.: Annie is reading by the fire. Her pig Misery sits beside her, staring at the pages.
PAUL'S ROOM. DAY.: His fingers just fly, faster than he's ever typed and
PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT.: Paul, staring and
PAUL'S ROOM: PAUL, ripping open a new ream of paper...
PAUL'S ROOM. DUSK.: His lips move silently. He's not even aware of it as he nods and...
ANNIE'S FARMHOUSE. NIGHT.: Lightning! Giant deep rolls of THUNDER as RAIN begins...
PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT.: The pile of manuscript has doubled. Maybe two hundred pages. PAUL, with some effort, is pumping the typewriter up and down. Finally, he places it back down and puts his arm back in the sling.
ANNIE: Here's your pills. She drops them on the table.
PAUL: Annie, what is it?
ANNIE: (half turns away, turns back, gestures outside) The rain... sometimes it gives me the blues.
ANNIE: When you first came here, I only loved the writer part of Paul Sheldon. But now I know I love the rest of him too. As much as Misery loves Ian. (beat) I know you don't love me--don't say you do--you're a beautiful, brilliant, famous man of the world; and I'm...not a movie star type. You'll never know the fear of losing someone like you if you're someone like me.
PAUL: Why would you lose me?
ANNIE: The book is almost finished. Your legs are getting better. Soon you'll be able to walk. You'll be wanting to leave.
PAUL: Why would I want to leave? I like it here.
ANNIE: That's very kind of you, but I'll bet it's not altogether true.
PAUL: It is. She slowly reaches into the pocket of her bathrobe and pulls out a .38 Special.
ANNIE: I have this gun, and sometimes I think about using it. She is absentmindedly clicking the empty gun.
ANNIE: I better go now. I might put bullets in it. Robot-like, she crosses to the door and leaves. As she closes and locks the door--
BUSTER AND VIRGINIA'S BEDROOM. NIGHT.: BUSTER AND VIRGINIA are lying in bed. Buster is reading yet another Misery novel, Misery's Trial. Virginia is also reading.
BUSTER: "There is a justice higher than that of man. I will be judged by Him."
VIRGINIA: What?
BUSTER: They're hauling Misery into court.
VIRGINIA: That's nice.
BUSTER: (mutters under his breath) "There is a justice higher than that of man--I will be judged by Him."
ANNIE'S KITCHEN.: The kitchen KNIVES on the counter.
THE STUDY: PAUL, back in his wheelchair, knife in his lap, carefully opening drawers of little tables, looking inside. He closes them, moves on, unmindful of the rain. Now--
THE LIVING ROOM: PAUL, opening the book.
PAUL: (stunned) Holy shit. Then a headline which reads:
"HEAD MATERNITY NURSE QUESTIONED ON INFANT DEATHS": Next page: "MISS WILKES RELEASED." Next page: "THREE MORE INFANTS DIE." Next page, at last: "DRAGON LADY ARRESTED." Then a photo: the front page of the Rocky Mountain Gazette. Annie on the courthouse steps. "DRAGON LADY CLAIMS INNOCENCE," under which there is a statement by Annie Wilkes. Paul turns quickly to the next page and a very large headline:
"DRAGON LADY FOUND NOT GUILTY": PAUL just sits there, shaking his head in bewilderment.
OUTSIDE THE FARMHOUSE. NIGHT.: We hear a clap of THUNDER and once again the rain pours down.
THE ROOM. EARLY MORNING.: It's stopped raining, PAUL lies asleep. Now, surprisingly, we hear a VOICE we've never heard in the movie before--loud-- for an instant we don't recognize the voice, then we do: It's LIBERACE talking to his audience on a record going, "Thank you, thank you, what a wonderful thing it is for me to be back with you in Paris..." PAUL stirs and awakens to discover that he is strapped to his bed. He can move his arms, but that's it.
ANNIE: (in a soft voice) Paul, I know you've been out.
PAUL: What?
ANNIE: You've been out of your room.
PAUL: No, I haven't.
ANNIE: Paul, my little ceramic penguin in the study always faces due south.
PAUL: I don't know what you're talking about. PAUL looks up at her--he is totally honest and sincere. As he talks, his hand surreptitiously begins moving toward the mattress edge.
ANNIE: Is this what you're looking for? I know you've been out twice, Paul. At first, I couldn't figure out how you did it, but last night I found your key. (She holds up the bobby pin) I know I left  my scrapbook out, and I can imagine what you might be thinking of me. But you see, Paul, it's all okay.
ANNIE: Last night it came so clear. I realize you just need more time. Eventually, you'll come to accept the idea of being here. Paul, do you know about the early days at the Kimberly Diamond Mine? Do you know what they did to the native workers who stole diamonds? Don't worry, they didn't kill them. That would be like junking a Mercedes just because it had a broken spring-- no, if they caught them they had to make sure they could go on working, but they also had to make sure they could never run away. The operation was called hobbling. And with that, she reaches down out of sight and comes up holding a 16-inch piece of 4 x 4 wood.
PAUL: Annie, whatever you're thinking about, don't do it.
ANNIE: Now don't fuss, Paul.
PAUL: Why would I run away? I'm a writer, Annie--it's all I am--and I've never written this well--even you said that this is my best, didn't you? ANNIE picks up a sledgehammer.
PAUL: Didn't you? Why would I leave a place where I'm doing my best work? It doesn't make any sense.
ANNIE: Shh, darling, trust me-- (taking aim at his ankle) It's for the best. She takes the sledgehammer back.
PAUL: Annie, for God's sake, please. As ANNIE swings, the sledgehammer makes contact with the ankle. It breaks with a sharp CRACK.
ANNIE: Almost done, just one more. And as she breaks the other ankle, PAUL shrieks even louder.
ANNIE: God, I love you...
FADE IN ON:: SILVER CREEK and ANNIE in her Cherokee, HONKING for another car to get a move on.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL: BUSTER, sitting by the front window of his office, reading The Rocky Mountain Gazette. He watches idly as ANNIE yells out the window to the car in front of her. THE DRIVER of the car yells back. Annie yells louder. The Driver guns off, and Annie pulls into the parking space next to the General Store.
BUSTER: Just leave it, all right?
VIRGINIA: Oh, I like that tone.
BUSTER: How many times do I have to tell you-- I have a system here. (rooting through a pile of papers) Where the hell is that thing?
VIRGINIA: What thing?
BUSTER: That thing. (finding what he's looking for, a 3 x 5 card) Here it is. Right where it's supposed to be.
VIRGINIA: What is it?
BUSTER: I'm not sure. Maybe nothing.
VIRGINIA: It's good you found it.
BUSTER: There's that spice again. As BUSTER leaves, VIRGINIA goes back to tidying the desk.
LIBRARY STACKS: BUSTER, wearing bifocals, sits poring over bound volumes of The Rocky Mountain Gazette.
BUSTER: Interesting. HOLD ON HIS FACE, then--
ANNIE: Hi, Punkin.
ANNIE: Give us a smile? (Paul gives her the finger. She laughs) Such a kidder. As she exits our view--
THE GENERAL STORE IN SILVER CREEK. EARLY AFTERNOON.: BUSTER enters. The place is empty. It's one of those wonderful spots that stocks pretty much everything in what seems like complete disarray. Buster goes to the coffee urn behind the counter, helps himself. He speaks to the guy who sits behind the counter nearby; these two have known each other forever.
BUSTER: Hey, Pete.
PETE: Buster.
BUSTER: Answer me a couple things?
PETE: If I can.
BUSTER: Do you have any of those new Paul Sheldon books?
PETE: We had a batch. Sold 'em all in three days.
BUSTER: You wouldn't happen to remember if Miz Wilkes bought one, would you?
PETE: Are you kidding? Every time that fella writes a book, she makes me set aside the first copy. BUSTER opens the cash register, drops his coffee money inside, closes the register.
BUSTER: Has she been buying any odd things lately?
PETE: Miz Wilkes? Same old stuff. (beat) --Lest you call paper odd.
BUSTER: Newspapers?
PETE: (mimes typing) No, the typing kind.
BUSTER: Oh. That kind. Nothing odd about that. He cannot hide his excitement now as we--
ANNIE: Paul, don't you think it's time for you to start writing again? It's been over a week.
PAUL: I don't know, it's weird, but a couple of broken bones hasn't done a lot for my creative juices. Get the fuck out of here.
ANNIE: Don't talk to me like that.
PAUL: (staring at her now) Why, what are you going to do? (spreading his arms wide) Kill me? Take your best shot.
ANNIE: (taken aback) Why are you so mean, Mister you'd-be- dead-in-the-snow-if-it-wasn't-for- me?
PAUL: Oh, no reason, you keep me prisoner, you make me burn my book, you drive a sledgehammer into my ankles...
ANNIE: I'll drive a sledgehammer into your man-gland if you're not nicer--
PAUL: (He spreads his legs) Be my guest.
ANNIE: (after a beat) That's disgusting. As she exits.
THE KITCHEN: ANNIE, busily making cocoa.
ANNIE: I don't think I'll ever understand you. I cook your meals, I tend to you practically twenty-four hours a day, and you continue to fight me. When are we going to develop a sense of trust? ANNIE opens the cellar door. PAUL is all but limp by now. As she picks him up and starts to carry him down the steps--
ANNIE: (Gasping) Oh, my!
BUSTER: Sorry, didn't mean to startle you. You didn't give me a chance to knock.
ANNIE: (all charm) Guess you can tell from my reaction, I'm not all that used to visitors out here. What can I do for you?
BUSTER: I was just wondering if you happen to know anything about Paul Sheldon.
ANNIE: (stammering) What do you want to know?
BUSTER: Anything you can tell me might help.
ANNIE: Well, he was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, forty-two years ago, the only child of Franklin and Helene Sheldon, mediocre student, majored in history...
BUSTER: (cutting in) Excuse me, that's not exactly the kind of information I was after. You see, he's been missing for quite some time now, and...
ANNIE: I know. It's so upsetting. I'm his number-one fan...I've got all his books, every sentence he ever put down. I'm so proud of my Paul Sheldon collection... (stops suddenly, almost embarrassed) ...here I am, prattling on and my manners have just flown away. I haven't invited you in. Please.
BUSTER: Thank you. ANNIE lets BUSTER in, closes the door. They linger in front of Paul's door. Buster idly checks out the hallway.
ANNIE: 'Course you must know about that horrible accident. BUSTER nods and wanders into the living room. ANNIE follows. He crosses into the study and checks out a bookcase that contains the complete works of Paul Sheldon. One shelf below contains Annie's infamous scrapbook.
ANNIE: Almost killed me, too. I prayed when I heard the news. I got down on my knees and begged for it not to be true.
CUT TO:: ANNIE. She's so moved. Buster wanders into the kitchen.
ANNIE: You're going to laugh at what I'm about to say, but go ahead, I don't care... (beat) ...when I was praying, God told me to get ready.
BUSTER: Get ready for what?
ANNIE: To try and be his replacement--he gave so much pleasure to so many people and there's a shortage of pleasure on this planet these days, in case you hadn't noticed. BUSTER enters Paul's room. ANNIE follows.
ANNIE: God told me, since I was his number- one fan, that I should make up new stories as if I was Paul Sheldon. So, went to town. And I bought a typewriter. And paper to type on. The same kind Paul Sheldon used. And I turned the guest bedroom into a writing studio. Would you like to see it?
BUSTER: Sure.
ANNIE: It's right this way. BUSTER takes a look in the bathroom. ANNIE waits for him.
ANNIE: It's right here. I knew how he wrote, the kinds of words he used, the wonderful stories he told-- (moved) --I've spent the last four weeks trying to write like Paul Sheldon. (sad shake of the head) But I can't do it right. I try and I try and I know all the words-- (eyes closed in despair) --but it's just not the same.
BUSTER: Well... (long pause) ...maybe it takes time to get the hang of it.
ANNIE: (holding up pages from the manuscript) I could give you a couple of hundred pages of mine, and you could tell me what you think.
BUSTER: I'm not much of a critic.
ANNIE: Well, I just thought--oh, look at me. You'd think I'd never had a house guest before. Would you like something to drink?
BUSTER: Sure.
ANNIE: How does a nice cup of cocoa sound?
BUSTER: Sounds good. As she exits into the kitchen.
ANNIE: There's some already made. BUSTER lingers in Paul's room for a beat, then goes into the hallway.
BUSTER: Must get lonely, living out here all by yourself.
ANNIE: I always say if you can't enjoy your own company, you're not fit company for anyone else.
BUSTER: You got a point there... As Buster moves up the stairs--
ANNIE: Here you are. BUSTER heads down the stairs, ANNIE follows.
BUSTER: Thanks, Miz Wilkes, but I don't want to take up any more of your time. I best be going.
ANNIE: But you didn't even taste your cocoa. They cross to the front door.
BUSTER: I'm sure it's wonderful, but really should be getting back. BUSTER opens the door.
BUSTER: If you don't mind, perhaps I could pay you another visit sometime.
ANNIE: I'd be delighted. Now that you know the way... With that, she closes the door. We stay with BUSTER. He stands on the front porch for a beat, thinking, then starts heading down the porch steps. Just as he reaches about halfway down, we HEAR A LOUD CRASH coming from inside the house.
BUSTER: Miz Wilkes, are you all right? There is no answer. He quietly moves into the house.
BUSTER: Miz Wilkes? Again, no answer.
PAUL: (weakly) Here. I'm down here. Down here.
BUSTER: Mr. Sheldon? But before Paul can answer, there's the sound of a LOUD EXPLOSION. Seemingly from nowhere a hole is ripped through Buster's chest, knocking him out of frame, revealing Annie, smoking shotgun in hand, standing at the top of the cellar steps.
ANNIE: Don't feel bad, Paul. It had to happen. I've been waiting for this sign. ANNIE walks toward BUSTER'S BODY and very casually takes his gun out of its holster.
ANNIE: I've known for some time why I was chosen to save you. You and I were meant to be together forever. But now our time in this world must end. But don't worry, Paul. I've already prepared for what must be done. I put two bullets in my gun, one for you and one for me. Oh, darling, it will be so beautiful. With that, ANNIE turns and exits the cellar. Paul's mind races desperately. He looks at the barbecue again. Next to it is a messy table with a dozen jars and cans on it.
ANNIE: Now don't be afraid. I love you. She starts toward him.
PAUL: I know you do. I love you too, Annie. (this stops her) And you're right. We are meant to be together. And I know we must die. But it must be so that Misery can live. We have the power to give Misery eternal life. We must finish the book.
ANNIE: But the time is now. Soon others will come.
PAUL: It's almost done. By dawn we'll be able to give Misery back to the world. ANNIE stares at Paul. She could go either way on this. Then, without a word, she turns and goes back up the stairs.
ANNIE: Here, Paul. I'll fix you something to eat. She exits. PAUL hesitates for a moment, then realizes he has no choice. He starts dragging himself over BUSTER and up the stairs.
PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT.: PAUL working. Typing like a madman, totally concentrated on the white paper. His lips move but he's not even aware of it. ANNIE enters quietly, holding a few pages.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul. It's beautiful.
PAUL: Three more chapters to go. She looks at him now, enthralled.
ANNIE: The stranger staying at the Inn, is he someone from Misery's past?
PAUL: Maybe.
ANNIE: This is so exciting. It's Windthorne, her first love, right?
PAUL: Maybe. Are you ready for the next chapter? He taunts her with it.
ANNIE: (brimming with enthusiasm) Oh you! She takes the pages and goes.
PAUL'S ROOM. LATER.: PAUL types a moment then rips out the page and starts over.
ANNIE: (more excited now than the last time) It WAS Windthorne. I knew it--what does that do to her love for Ian?-- (thinks) --of course, if she hadn't thought Windthorne was murdered she never would have fallen in love with Ian in the first place. (Paul glares at her, she turns to the door) Sorry, it's just that this is so wonderful.
PAUL: I'm glad you like it.
ANNIE: Paul, this will be our legacy.
PAUL: It will. He hands her a few more pages, she starts reading as she exits.
PAUL'S ROOM. MUCH LATER.: PAUL rubs his eyes. For a moment, he sags, but he fights it. He puts a clean page into the typewriter. ANNIE bursts in.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul. I'm dying. Does she wind up with Ian or Windthorne? You have to tell me.
PAUL: You'll know very soon. I'm starting the last chapter. And when I finish, I want everything to be perfect. I'll require three things.
ANNIE: What things?
PAUL: You don't know?
ANNIE: (smiling) I was fooling, silly. (ticking them off) You need a cigarette, because you used to smoke but you quit except when you finish a book, and you just have one, and the match is to light it. And you need one glass of champagne. (thinks) Dome Pear-igg-non.
PAUL: Dome Pear-igg-non it is. AS ANNIE exits.
THE WINDOW: The first light of morning is starting to break through.
PAUL: (calling out) Annie! Annie! With that, she enters.
ANNIE: Yes, Paul.
PAUL: I'm almost done.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul, this is so romantic. Ian and Windthorne dueling for the right to Misery's hand. Does Ian win? Oh, don't me. It's Windthorne, right?
PAUL: You'll know everything in a minute. Get the champagne.
ANNIE: (dying from the suspense) Ahh!!! She exits; PAUL adjusts the manuscript on the table and then types the last line.
PAUL'S ROOM: ANNIE enters with the tray. She sets it down on the table.
ANNIE: Did I do good?
PAUL: You did perfect. Except for one thing. This time we need two glasses. He takes the last page out of the typewriter.
ANNIE: Oh, Paul. As soon as she exits, PAUL drops the manuscript to the floor, pulls the lighter fluid from his pants, and starts dousing the manuscript with lighter fluid. He grabs the last chapter and twists the last few pages together torch style. He douses it with the fluid and holds the match out of sight. He smiles as we
PAUL: It's all right here, Annie. Remember how for all those years no one ever knew who Misery's real father was, or if they'd ever be reunited? It's all right here. Will Misery finally lead her countrymen to freedom? Does she finally marry Ian or will it be Windthorne? It's all right here.
ANNIE: Paul, you can't. And as her hands fly out beseechingly--
PAUL: Why not? I learned it from you... And on that--
ANNIE: No, no, NOT MISERY--NOT MY MISERY...! He drops the last chapter into the soaked manuscript and
ANNIE: I'm going to kill you, you lying cocksucker... As she struggles to her feet, she pulls out the gun and shoots at Paul, hitting him in the shoulder. Just as she's about to shoot again, Paul quickly wheels the chair up to her, throws himself out of the chair, and tackles her. The gun flies out of her hand and lands in the hallway, going off as it lands. They wrestle on the floor. Flames still around them, PAUL gets on top of her, grabs some burning pages, stuffs them into her mouth, shouting --
PAUL: Here. Here. You want it? You want it? You can eat it--eat it--eat it till you fucking CHOKE--you sick, twisted fuck. And as he forces more paper into her mouth--
YOUNGER COP: It's the writer--the dead one--
PAUL: (trying to keep himself together) --right! I'm the dead one--
OLDER COP: Where's Sheriff McCain?
PAUL: He's in the cellar. She killed him.
OLDER COP: Annie Wilkes?
PAUL: Yeah. She's in there.
INSIDE THE BEDROOM: The OLDER COP has his gun ready to fire, but even with it tight in his hand, he's edgy as hell. He looks around-- --glass and bloodstains on the floor. The charred remains of a manuscript. He kneels quickly, glances under the bed--nothing. He looks at the window--wide open.
OLDER COP: Mr. Sheldon? There's no one in there.
PALM COURT, PLAZA HOTEL: This legend appears: ONE YEAR LATER MARCIA SINDELL is seated at a table. PAUL enters, walking briskly, and he's never looked this good before. He's gained his weight back, his color is normal again. He appears to be, for the first time in the movie, a jaunty, happy figure.
PAUL: Sorry I'm late. Jenny's basketball game went into overtime. If anybody ever told me I'd have a daughter who'd get a triple double, I'd...
SINDELL: Did they win?
PAUL: Yeah. They're in the semis.
SINDELL: Here it is. (big moment) Very first copy. And she hands him a wrapped package. PAUL sits, begins unwrapping it. It's a book. A new one by Paul Sheldon. The Higher Education of J. Phillip Stone. Paul turns it over gently in his hands.
SINDELL: The word I'm getting is the Times review is gonna be a love letter.
PAUL: That'd be a first.
SINDELL: And my contacts at Time and Newsweek tell me they're both raves. And don't laugh--for the first time, I think you've got a shot at some prizes.
PAUL: (flatly) Great.
SINDELL: I thought you'd be thrilled. You're being taken seriously.
PAUL: I'm delighted the critics are liking it, and I hope the people like it, too. But it's not why I wrote the book.
PAUL: I like it. Remember how you once said I live my whole life as if I'm in danger of being found out? Well, I believe I've managed to get that guy down on paper. (He touches the book. Beat.) Don't think I'm completely nuts, but in some way, Annie Wilkes, that whole experience, helped me.
SINDELL: Paul, since you brought her up, I have to ask you this, or I'd be drummed out of the agents' union-- what about a non-fiction book? The truth about what went on in that house.
PAUL: Gee, Marcia, if I didn't know you better, I'd think you were suggesting I dredge up the worst horror of my life just so we could make a few bucks.
SINDELL: Now you've hurt me, Paul. As Paul glances around...
SINDELL: I thought you were over it.
PAUL: I am. Well, maybe not completely-- He glances toward the trolley.
PAUL: I don't know if you can ever be totally over something like that--I just don't think about it as much anymore, and when I do, it's not so terrifying.
PAUL: I mean, once they found her body, my nightmares stopped.
WAITRESS: Would you care for anything?
PAUL: (smiles) Cut me something sinful...
