NEKHORVICH: wipes his eyes, a horn honks. He looks toward the sound.
GUARD: What's this, then?
NEKHORVICH: ( handing her documents ) The ashes of a colleague, I'm taking them to his family. If you wish to open it, please be careful.
CAPTAIN'S VOICE: - folks, we're a little over two and a half hours from touchdown in Atlanta, but if you look out your windows on either side of the aircraft, we'll soon be crossing the southern section of the Rocky Mountains, a range which includes more than 50 peaks rising above 14,000 feet. The chain's loftiest point, Mount Elbert, at 14, 433 feet should be coming into view as we pass over central Colorado shortly..
ETHAN: You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it, Doctor..
NEKHORVICH: Well, yes. I suppose I am a bit anxious.
ETHAN: They're ready and waiting. You'll soon be with old friends.
NEKHORVICH: ( meaning Ethan ) I'm with an old friend now, Dmitri.
ETHAN: Sorry it couldn't be under happier Yes, I'm sorry too.. 'You're sorry and I'm - you do know Gradski thought the world of you. He was quite a man. Did he know before the end you two had succeeded?
NEKHORVICH: Yes, I'm sorry too.. 'You're sorry and I'm - you do know Gradski thought the world of you. He was quite a man. Did he know before the end you two had succeeded?
ETHAN: He was quite a man. Did he know before the end you two had succeeded?
NEKHORVICH: Yes, he knew. Just..
ETHAN: ..not in time to save him.
NEKHORVICH: No. After you've lived with twenty hours, nothing can save you. Not
ETHAN: You carry them together? Safely?
NEKHORVICH: Yes, and you'll get us to a safe place with them, thank god!..left to my own devices, I'm an old fart too inept to read a railroad timetable!..
CAPTAIN'S VOICE: You Captain again. We've experienced a slight but abrupt drop in cabin pressure..
CAPTAIN: ( into radio ) Pan, pan, pan, Denver Center. This is Trans Pac Flight two-two-zero-seven, 747 heavy. We are not reading you. We're unable to maintain cabin pressurization. We have initiated a descent to one six
NEKHORVICH: ..it seems we have a problem, Dmitri.
ETHAN: ( in the same tone ) You keep calling me Dmitri. You really
NEKHORVICH: You're not Dmitri?
ETHAN: - no. Wallis, hold onto it. Ulrich, pull the -
AMBROSE: - pull the NO2 tank and dump it, it's potential evidence..
STAMP: ( the 'captain' into shot ) All done, chief..
AMBROSE: ( what else ) - right - ( kidding ) - don't go too far ahead of me now -
STAMP: Not possible..
WALLIS: Checkpoint Charlie plus 30, altitude minus two-zero-thousand. Airspeed one-seven- niner knots..
AMBROSE: It's that time. Go.
VOICE: Terrain, terrain. Pull up, pull up.
ETHAN: He pockets the lizard, climbs the overhang.
ETHAN: You're welcome.
ELECTRONIC VOICE: Identity confirmed.
SWANBECK: Good morning, Mr. Hunt.
SWANBECK'S VOICE: Your mission, should you choose to accept it, requires you to recover a stolen item, designated Chimera. Essential to the mission is the recruitment of a civilian a Miss Nyah Nordoff-Hall. She is a highly capable professional thief currently active in Spain. Her dossier's available on I-COM 3. You have 48 hours to recruit Ms. Nordoff-Hall and meet me in Seville to receive further details. Should you or any member of your IM force be caught or killed, the Secretary will disavow all knowledge of your actions. And Mr. Hunt - the next time you go on vacation, please be good enough to let us know where you're going. This message will self-destruct in five seconds.
ETHAN: If I let you know where I'm going - - won't be on holiday.
ETHAN: Do you know me?
NYAH: No. Should I?
ETHAN: No. You just looked as if you did.
NYAH: No. Just as if I'd like to.
ETHAN: Oh. Well. I think that can be arranged.
NYAH: Not tonight. Bad timing. Sorry -
ETHAN: There's not enough time in the world for any of it to be bad.
NYAH: Look, it's either you or the rent and I don't mind telling you it's not an easy What if I pay the rent?
ETHAN: What if I pay the rent?
NYAH: Glancing at the gentleman making his way back with her drink And purposeful creature that she is, she takes her frustrated desire upstairs, timing her footsteps so as to use the sound of the dancer's steps to cover her own. Once upstairs, a security guard near the master bedroom can be seen eagerly following her down the hall, both moving past a pair of windows, visible to Ethan. In a few moments, Nyah can be seen past the windows in the opposite direction, without the guard following. In another moment or two, a very puzzled looking security guard can be glimpsed in the first window, looking up and down the hall, clearly having lost sight of Nyah. Ethan smiles, moves out of shot.
ETHAN: Glancing at the gentleman making his way back with her drink And purposeful creature that she is, she takes her frustrated desire upstairs, timing her footsteps so as to use the sound of the dancer's steps to cover her own. Once upstairs, a security guard near the master bedroom can be seen eagerly following her down the hall, both moving past a pair of windows, visible to Ethan. In a few moments, Nyah can be seen past the windows in the opposite direction, without the guard following. In another moment or two, a very puzzled looking security guard can be glimpsed in the first window, looking up and down the hall, clearly having lost sight of Nyah. Ethan smiles, moves out of shot.
NYAH: Go find the wealthy lady you came with and next time we meet - I'll pay your rent. Now bugger off.
NYAH: ( her fondest hopes confirmed )
ETHAN: Decisions, decisions.
NYAH: What are you doing here?
ETHAN: Think you're the only one who can pick a I see. You're not just another pretty face.. Oh god. A bloody baritone. I take it you prefer tenors.
NYAH: ( not altogether pleased ) I see. You're not just another pretty face.. Oh god. A bloody baritone. I take it you prefer tenors.
ETHAN: I take it you prefer tenors.
NYAH: Would you mind if I'm on top?
ETHAN: Oh, either way works for me.
ETHAN'S VOICE: You're never gonna find it there.
NYAH: ( she jumps, dropping the torque wrench ) Damn it! Find what?
ETHAN: His ex-wife's Bulgari necklace that goes up for auction Tuesday.
LOOKING UP: more or less, hands locked behind his neck as he rests against the raked back of the tub, his eyes and nose inches from Nyah's lower pelvic region as she straddles him. Not exactly in the mood to move: She stiffens - he knows too damn much.
NYAH: - right..where is it?
ETHAN: Far right.
NYAH: Where's the bloody -
ETHAN: ( plucking it off his chest, offering it up like a mechanic under the chassis ) - torque wrench.
NYAH: - this is very disconerting..
ETHAN: Hey, you put me here. I just do what I'm - right.. Who are you and what's it going to cost me?
NYAH: - right.. Who are you and what's it going to cost me?
ETHAN: ( having sat up ) I wouldn't do that.
NYAH: Do what?
ETHAN: The bathroom is suddenly filled with security guards, gun drawn Senor de l'Arena, looking highly upset, pops in.
ETHAN: Well, Senor de l'Arena the goods news is that the heat sensors were activated. But Miss Nordoff-Hall, my associate -
ETHAN: - did feel that she had rather too long to work on the safe before they triggered the alarm, isn't that right Miss Hall?
NYAH: Oh yes. Absolutely. Much too long I should yes.
ETHAN: Under the circumstances I think we would recommend re-setting the senors to respond to a lighter load. How do you feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall?
NYAH: Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason to disrupt your party any longer. we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you'll receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow. Shall we? Miss Hall. Haven't you forgotten
ETHAN: Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason to disrupt your party any longer. we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards, which you'll receive in our written report by fax in the morning, hard copy to follow. Shall we? Miss Hall. Haven't you forgotten
NYAH: The necklace?
NYAH: I'm missing something here, aside from a 500,000 pound necklace. Even after I botched the job, I could've walked out of there with the bloody thing.
ETHAN: At least you walked.
NYAH: If you weren't going to let me get away with it, why did you let me go thru with Wanted to see how good you were. I'm hoping we might work together.
ETHAN: Wanted to see how good you were. I'm hoping we might work together.
NYAH: May I say something, no offence? You look like a gigolo, you sound like a thief, you act like a cop - what the bloody hell do you have in mind?
ETHAN: Working under adverse conditions. Highly adverse conditions.
NYAH: Sounds smashing. I'm in. Muchacho, mi carro, por favor! Now be serious. You couldn't possibly want me off tonight's You didn't do that badly.
ETHAN: You didn't do that badly.
NYAH: ( as she moves to her car ) You're apologizing for me? Quite the ( opening the car door ) Not really. I triggered the alarm..
ETHAN: ( opening the car door ) Not really. I triggered the alarm..
ETHAN: Hey, the Bulgari job last week was flawless. And I've always been partial to pale yellows.
NYAH: ( as he leads on the car ) I don't do laundry, or put up with cheeky bastards who set me up on their territory so they can poach on mine.
NYAH: ( tentatively ) Hi. Would you mind slowing down?
ETHAN: Hi. Would you mind slowing down?
NYAH: Where did you get this number? I don't even have it!
ETHAN' VOICE: Would you like it?
ETHAN: Pull over and listen to me, will you? Just listen..
NYAH: Listen to what?
ETHAN: I need your help and I thin you can use Your help? What are you talking about?
NYAH: Your help? What are you talking about?
ETHAN: Scotland Yard, Interpol, every Dutch authority. I can make them go away.
NYAH: Oh bloody hell. You're a spy.
ETHAN: ( to himself ) I deserved that.
ETHAN: ( half to himself ) Slow down, slow down.
NYAH: ( realizing she's in trouble )
ETHAN: Suddenly there's no Nyah. Ethan leaps over to Nyah's car and sees Nyah dangling over the ocean and rocks hundreds of feet below, holding the door handle.
NYAH: Taking a firm grip on her wrist.
ETHAN: Don't look down. Just..look at me. That's it..that's it..
NYAH: What's you name?
ETHAN: Ethan Hunt.
NYAH: Well, Ethan Hunt, what is it you want to talk to me about?
ETHAN: .more than I thought..
NYAH: Awfully short notice..
ETHAN: Care to wait a decent interval?
NYAH: Who wants to be decent?..
ETHAN: So what've you got against spooks?
NYAH: When they've got your recruiting technique? Not a thing.
ETHAN: Oh. Well..this isn't exactly by the book.
NYAH: They've got a book for this?
ETHAN: They've got a book for everything.
NYAH: The only other spook I knew was a liar. Charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth. He'd lie about his favorite color. But then I reckon it's an occupational hazard. All spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies.
ETHAN: Not revealing information doesn't necessarily make someone a liar.
NYAH: That's not the point. In the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don't.
ETHAN: Which is?
NYAH: That they're lying. ..once they know that they can get very very..crosee..
ETHAN: So where did I got right?
NYAH: You're not a liar. Or you're an awfully good one.. ..this thing these blokes pinched..
ETHAN: I don't know that they 'pinched' it. Don't even know that they're blokes.
NYAH: Well, then, what I am I doing here? I assume I'm meant to be some sort of thief-to So do I. Sort of.
ETHAN: So do I. Sort of.
NYAH: Spoken like a spook..you ever afraid?
ETHAN: Of what?
NYAH: Ask a question, you get an answer!..
ETHAN: Damn, you're beautiful.
NYAH: That's because I'm on my back.
ETHAN: I don't think so.
ETHAN: Are you gonna be here a while?
VENDOR: Si, senor.
ETHAN: I'll pick'em up on my way out, okay?
SWANBECK: Fetival's a pain in the ass. Honoring saint by setting'em on fire. Sit down, sit down. Let's you know what they think of saints, doesn't it? Damn near set me on fire on my way over here. As if I haven't been burned enough today. Sorry I barged in on your vacation.
ETHAN: Sorry I didn't let you know where I was.
SWANBECK: Don't be. Wouldn't be on vacation if you did.
ETHAN: Well. You're sorry and I'm sorry.
SWANBECK: Why did you phrase it like that?
ETHAN: Like what?
SWANBECK: 'You're sorry and I'm sorry.'
ETHAN: You gotta be kidding.
VLADIMIR NEKHORVICH: ( with exaggerate brio ) Well, Dmitri! How are you?..
NEKHORVICH: ( with exaggerate brio ) Well, Dmitri! How are you?..
ETHAN: ..I'm fine..and you?
NEKHORVICH: I'm fine..
ETHAN: I'm fine and you're fine..
NEKHORVICH: I'm fine too.. I'm fine and you're fine - do you remember, dear fried, how you got Sergei and I to repeat those lines from Dr. Strangelove and we gave you the name of that silly Soviet Premier because we didn't know your name?..In those days, you not only saved our lives, you saved our sanity. 'Now, then Dmitri - we have this little problem': Every search for a hero must begin with something that every hero requires; a villain. Therefore, in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster Chimera. I beg you, Dmitri, come to Sydney and accompany me to Atlanta immediately. However we travel, I must arrive at me destination, within 20 hours of departure. Forgive this fanciful explanation, but for now prudence dictates that I communicate nothing but the gravest urgency. I fear I can entrust this to no one but you, Dmitri. as we say, 'I'm sorry and you're sorry'..
SWANBECK: Let me ask you something. You have any idea what the hell he's talking about?
ETHAN: An idea, yeah.
SWANBECK: Like it's a good idea to pick him up in a hurry. And a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier. So let's get on with it. He's still in Sydney?
ETHAN: Like it's a good idea to pick him up in a hurry. And a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier. So let's get on with it. He's still in Sydney?
SWANBECK: Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich is dead. So is his colleague, Gradski, but that happened earlier. We had Nekhorvich on a flight from Sydney that crashed in the Rockies.. - Hunt, are you listening?..
ETHAN: If he didn't want to go anywhere without me, how did you get him on the flight?
SWANBECK: You were there.
ETHAN: slowly looks up at Swanbeck.
SWANBECK: When I couldn't find you, I had to replace you. Sean Ambrose was the obvious choice. He double you, what? Two, three times?
ETHAN: What did you think of him?
SWANBECK: What did you think of him?
ETHAN: You know we had reservations about each other. Isn't it a little late in the day to be asking me that?
SWANBECK: Not necessarily.
SWANBECK: Airline record list Captain Harold Macintosh as the pilot for Flt 2207. as far as the media and all governmental agencies are concerned, Captain Macintosh died on the flight, but in fact he missed it. He did, however make the next flight - in cargo, stuffed into a rather small suitcase considering his size. Someone on that flight planned an operation designed to down the plane and make it look like an accident. Someone skillful enough to bring the whole thing off without a hitch but - they don't always get your luggage on the plane, even when you fly first class.
ETHAN: So there's one thing we know Ambrose Then you do think it was Ambrose. And you're not surprised.
SWANBECK: Then you do think it was Ambrose. And you're not surprised.
ETHAN: Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it.
SWANBECK: Enough to kill Nekhorvich and two hundred innocent passengers?
ETHAN: Sean feels he hasn't done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground.
SWANBECK: The question is why? What was this Chimera Nekhorvich was carrying?
ETHAN: Right now only Ambrose knows that.
SWANBECK: In any case, you've got to recover Chimera and bring it to us.
ETHAN: In order to do that, I've got to figure out how he plans to make money with it.
SWANBECK: - right. In fact since the plane went down our banking sources have confirmed a marked increase in the stock pilling of cash in terrorists accounts.
ETHAN: Well you know Nekhorvich's history. You're the one who got him out of the Soviet Union was it still in bio- weapon business.
SWANBECK: Well you know Nekhorvich's history. You're the one who got him out of the Soviet Union was it still in bio- weapon business.
ETHAN: If that's what you're thinking Ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane. Locating him in time to stop something like that -
SWANBECK: - is where Miss Hall comes in.
ETHAN: ( blindsided ) Excuse me?
SWANBECK: Miss Hall and Ambrose had a relationship which he took very seriously. She walked away and he's wanting her back ever since. We believe she's our surest and quickest way of location him.
ETHAN: ( acidly ) And then what?
SWANBECK: Then makes sure she continues to see him. Gets him confide in her and report to You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for her skills as a thief.
ETHAN: You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for her skills as a thief.
SWANBECK: Well, then I mislead you. Or you made the wrong assumption. Either way we're asking her to resume a prior relationship, not do anything she hasn't already done.
ETHAN: She's got no training for this kind of Go to bed with a man and lie to him? She's a woman. She's got all the training she needs.
SWANBECK: Go to bed with a man and lie to him? She's a woman. She's got all the training she needs.
ETHAN: I don't think I can get her to do it.
SWANBECK: You mean it'll be difficult.
ETHAN: Well it's not mission It's mission impossible. Difficult should be a walk in the park for you. If you can think of a quicker way to get to Ambrose, you're welcome to try. Oh, by the way, you might want to take a look at these..if you have any further qualms about getting her to do the job.
SWANBECK: Well it's not mission It's mission impossible. Difficult should be a walk in the park for you. If you can think of a quicker way to get to Ambrose, you're welcome to try. Oh, by the way, you might want to take a look at these..if you have any further qualms about getting her to do the job.
STREET VENDOR: Senor, senor! Your flowers.
ETHAN: Yes. They're very nice..
NYAH: carefully places the little Minolta on a glass-topped coffee table. She's beautifully pulled together, the safehouse has the lights low, flamenco music playing, and when she walks out onto the balcony Ethan sees the candlelit table and a bottle of champagne chilling. There's a light breeze the fire from the burning effigies throwing smoke and flame all over the city.
NYAH: What's the population of Seville any Five, six-hundred thousand.
ETHAN: Five, six-hundred thousand.
NYAH: There's nearly 2 million in London.
ETHAN: And six billion in the world.
NYAH: That's lot of people out there..how many of them, I wonder, are capable of something like that?
ETHAN: Sean Ambrose, for one.
NYAH: INT - SAFEHOUSE ( EVE - LATER ) The pounding beat of the flamenco music seems to fill the room Nyah's back to Ethan:
NYAH: ( grimly amused ) Not that it matter much but..I seem to recall you staying something like, 'I was hoping we could work together.'
ETHAN: This wasn't what I had in mind, Nyah.
NYAH: But it is what you'd like me to do. so tell me to do it.. Come on, out with it. Tell me to go and insinuate myself back into Sean's life.
ETHAN: Go and insinuate yourself back into Sean's I'd like a little more conviction..
NYAH: I'd like a little more conviction..
ETHAN: So would I. But it's not mine to give.
NYAH: ( archness there ) You've either got it or you don't. Let your conscience be your guide?
ETHAN: Something like that.
NYAH: But I don't have a conscience. I'm a bloody thief.
ETHAN: You can be a thief and have a conscience.
NYAH: No. You can be a thief and have a conscience: Not me. Why did you have to tell me about this! What do I have to do to get away from this guy? When you're with him, he messes about with your head every waking moment..even now I'll be at some out-of- the-way-place, a tin of caviar and a bottle of Crystal shows up at the table, with two glass, God knows how he finds out at any given moment where I am in the world but he does. And it looks like he's done it again. You know his definition of a true paranoid?
ETHAN: I don't.
NYAH: Someone in possession of all the facts. Are you telling me I have to do this?
ETHAN: Generally, I don't favor coercing someone. Not when there's a chance my life could end up in their hands.
NYAH: And that's the only reason?
ETHAN: Can you think of a better one?
NYAH: Not me. I was just hoping you might..or that..somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical.
ETHAN: Look, would it make you feel better if I didn't want you to do this?
NYAH: Then feel better!.. Well. That made all the difference in the world, didn't it?
ETHAN: Then feel better!.. Well. That made all the difference in the world, didn't it?
NYAH: Sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of 'yoo-hoo-I'm- not-nad' message. Not after the way we broke up.
ETHAN: What wouldn't make him suspicious?
NYAH: Probably that I needed him in some urgent way..destitute - in serious trouble..the kind I couldn't possible sort out myself..
ETHAN: Serious trouble, Nyah, is something I can always arrange..
ETHAN: This little chip sends a coded signal that can be picked up only by our computer.
ETHAN'S VOICE: When it's in your ankle we can track you within three feet of anywhere in the
ETHAN: Look, I can't run your arrest in CNN, but I guarantee he's monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world, for what they might be saying about him, if nothing else - he's got the ability and, we assume, the desire to get you out of This doesn't seem to be accomplishing Well, I mean it's not a total loss. It is keeping a very capable thief off the Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know. Maybe he's lost
NYAH: This doesn't seem to be accomplishing Well, I mean it's not a total loss. It is keeping a very capable thief off the Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know. Maybe he's lost
ETHAN: Well, I mean it's not a total loss. It is keeping a very capable thief off the Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know. Maybe he's lost
NYAH: Very funny..maybe he has heard and doesn't want to know. Maybe he's lost
GUARD: ( to Nyah ) Your lawyer to see you.
NYAH: What lawyer?
ETHAN: Well, here we go.
ETHAN: Stop and look for something in you purse..kneel down..
NYAH: Limo's waiting.
ETHAN: - Ambrose will have counter-surveillance second to no one's. When and if he contacts you, push this button before you actually end up under his roof it'll scramble your transmission to us.
NYAH: When will you be there?
ETHAN: Before you are.
NYAH: How can you possibly? I've got to get right on the plane. I'm leaving now.
ETHAN: You don't trust me.
NYAH: Oh, I do. But as we know I'm a very poor judge of character.
ETHAN: He's got you on Qantas flight 2735. It's going to be delayed.
NYAH: You'll be fine. I'm going to lose Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I'm gonna bail - and without giving two week notice.
ETHAN: You'll be fine. I'm going to lose Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I'm gonna bail - and without giving two week notice.
NYAH: Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll take care of myself because if push comes to shove, I'm gonna bail - and without giving two week notice.
ETHAN: Well, forewarned is forearmed. And while we're at it, be especially sensitive to any sudden change in Ambrose's plans, especially any involving you..
ETHAN'S VOICE: Welcome to Australia, mate.
LUTHER: Thanks - mate.
LUTHER: It's the transponder.
ETHAN: Put in the coordinates and let's get a visual. The visuals aren't coming up.
LUTHER: The satellite doesn't work as fast as I Yeah, I've heard about you, Luther, and I just want to tell you it's an honor and a pleasure to be working with you blokes, whoaa! That's some transponder! It certainly is. How did we get so lucky?
BILLY: Yeah, I've heard about you, Luther, and I just want to tell you it's an honor and a pleasure to be working with you blokes, whoaa! That's some transponder! It certainly is. How did we get so lucky?
LUTHER: ( a jaundiced eye, to Ethan ) It certainly is. How did we get so lucky?
NYAH: The speedboat's engine's are cut. Nyah looks momentarily POV NYAH ( MOVING ) a lone slender figure silhouetted at the end of the dock, still as the piling besides which it stands. But the features remain obscured by the sun at his back.
ETHAN: leans forward as the slender figure grows larger,
BILLY: ( to Ethan ) Is it him, then?
THE CIGARETTE: idles into shadow water but the props start chewing into the sand - the boatman grumbles he can't get any closer. The slender figure has moved to the shoreline and the angle of the light changes - Ambrose is waiting. Nyah hesitates only a flicker of an instant, slips over the side into thigh-high water without taking her eyes off Ambrose. Ambrose strides right on into the bay. as they are just an arm's length apart:
NYAH: takes a deep breath, presses the button to scramble the WITH ETHAN ( INT. SHEEPFARM SAFEHOUSE ) The picture abruptly goes dead.
BILLY: Damn. Just when it was about to get It's okay. She scrambled the transmission. Luther, continue feeding the GPS her position.
ETHAN: It's okay. She scrambled the transmission. Luther, continue feeding the GPS her position.
ETHAN: Can't we speed this up.
LUTHER: With what? This is the only computer that'll do this.
BILLY: - right. Now there's a bloke who knows how to deliver a proper welcome. Don't get me wrong, mate. You were quite hospitable. Is it him, then? It is, Billy.
LUTHER: It is, Billy.
BILLY: Then we got'em!
ETHAN: We don't know what we've got because we don't know what he's got, where he's got it or what he's doing in Sydney with it.
AMBROSE: Not much luggage.
NYAH: I left in a bit of a hurry. I'm terribly grateful, Sean.
AMBROSE: How grateful?
NYAH: Well that depends.
AMBROSE: On what.
NYAH: How hard you had to work to get me out of there..how in the world did you ever find me?
AMBROSE: ( stopping ) How I usually find you, Nyah.
NYAH: How do you that.
AMBROSE: POV THRU TENT ANNEX WINDOW ( AMBROSE COMPOUND ) looking down the length of the dock. Ambrose, his arm around Nyah and carrying her suitcase, moves up the dock toward the house and camera. Stamp steps into the annex and looks over to Wallis, who watches Nyah on the monitors.
NYAH: POV THRU TENT ANNEX WINDOW ( AMBROSE COMPOUND ) looking down the length of the dock. Ambrose, his arm around Nyah and carrying her suitcase, moves up the dock toward the house and camera. Stamp steps into the annex and looks over to Wallis, who watches Nyah on the monitors.
WALLIS: No flies on her. No bugs either. She's clean.
STAMP: ( drily ) All cats are.
NEKHORVICH: .therefore in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster,
BILLY: What you got there, mate?
ETHAN: A myth..just a myth.shouldn't you be checking out their countersurveillance?
BILLY: Well you know his blokes'll place the OSCOR in his annex, where else if you're pinpointing transmitters, video signals, covert chip cameras, anything radiating, ..or hard wired..
ETHAN: ..or hard wired..
BILLY: ( please ) - or hard wired, right. First line of perimeter defence'll run from the back of the dock to the front of the house. Whatever moves burps or bleep is gonna be picked up to a height of twenty feet. Basically impenetrable, I'd say.
LUTHER: Ethan, here's Nekhorvich, and here's his McCloy, Jon Chaddick, CEO Biocyte Pharmaceuticals..D.O.B. September 30, 1952, Manchester, England.
BILLY: ( a little lost ) Well do you disagree with that?
ETHAN: Not at all. But how about going into town and confirming your intuitions on site?
BILLY: Oh well, if that's how you feel about it.
LUTHER: ..then Cambridge..Harvard..entrepreneurial efforts..in efforts..in 1989, acquired Biocyte in hostile takeover.. Ethan, have a look at this.
MCCLOY'S VOICE: We at out state-of-the-art solar powered Biocyte building recognized that eternal vigilance is the price of health.. whether it's funding the teaching center at the Royal Prince Edward Hospital, removing aerosol products from the marker or braving the influenza quarantine at Bruny island late last month..at Biocyte your life..is our life's work..
ETHAN: ( quietly ) ..Biocyte workers at Bruny Island.
NYAH: Your room.
AMBROSE: ( yes ) And my room? Thought you could use a little something to wear. Try it on.. Go ahead. I'm dying to see if I remembered your size..
NYAH: And my room? Thought you could use a little something to wear. Try it on.. Go ahead. I'm dying to see if I remembered your size..
AMBROSE: Thought you could use a little something to wear. Try it on.. Go ahead. I'm dying to see if I remembered your size..
NYAH: No changing room?
AMBROSE: grips her wrist, the flimsy Armani dangling in the air.
NYAH: You're not interested in seeing how it Oh, I am. Later..
AMBROSE: Oh, I am. Later..
NEKHORVICH: ..therefore in a search for our hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster, Why's Nekhorvich going on about an old Greek myth?
LUTHER: Why's Nekhorvich going on about an old Greek myth?
ETHAN: Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA molecules. In the myth, Bellerophon killed Chimera, a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world. I think Nekhorvich has created a monster virus in Chimera and apparently the means to kill it in That simple, huh?
LUTHER: That simple, huh?
ETHAN: Why not?
NYAH: Did you say something?
AMBROSE: leaning on an elbow, looking down.
AMBROSE: I said you're beautiful, Nyah.
NYAH: Only because..it's spring..chalk it up - to spring fever.
AMBROSE: Won't do, love. It's not spring. It's nearly autumn..You're in Oz. everything's upside down and backwards here.
NYAH: ( more direct ) Maybe that's it, then. Everything's upside down and backwards.
ETHAN: Luther..get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last month, including photos of the victims.
LUTHER: Right. I guess there aren't many flu epidemics in the middle of summer.
ETHAN: Yeah? I've just rolled up a snowball and tosses it into hell.
ETHAN'S VOICE: Now we'll see what chance it has. Damn, You're beautiful.
AMBROSE: Twenty-four mil..
AMBROSE'S VOICE: Thirty-seven million pounds. That's a promising bid. We'll need this at the track. Well then.
AMBROSE: We'll need this at the track. Well then.
STAMP: ( pointedly ) Not everything. Why do you think she's really here?
AMBROSE: From her point of view or mine?
STAMP: Wasn't exactly gagging for it when she left you six months ago..The question is, do you trust her?
AMBROSE: One considers her timing, of course - getting nicked within a week of the plane going down. Suggestive, even borderline suspicious, but hardly conclusive.
STAMP: Well, you've thorough about it, at any
AMBROSE: Tell me, Hugh. You don't exactly hang on Nyah's every word and gesture, do you? Fairly ratty nail, that.
STAMP: With his left hand Ambrose grabs Stamp's left wrist.
AMBROSE: You're not scrutinizing any casual shrug for some hair-splitting nuance, are you?
STAMP: Sean, please..
AMBROSE: Suppose she is some sort of Trojan horse sent in by IMF to spy in us, why should I deny myself the pleasure of a ride or two? Or don't you think I can learn more from her than she can from me?
STAMP: ( in pain ) I do!..
AMBROSE: Now Hugh, you must realize that some of us have the burden of sex to deal with..and my dear chap. I may or may not know why she thinks she's here, but I'm willing to take the risk, because Hugh, I am gaging for it.. Don't ever question my judgment again.
AMBROSE: ( surprised ) You won.
NYAH: ( looking at her ticket ) I suppose I did.
AMBROSE: What made you pick won a bloody thing.
NYAH: 'Thief in the Night?'
AMBROSE: Say no more. I'm off to grab a drink. Still favor Bellinis?
A VOICE: Naturally Vain..
NYAH: Pardon me?
BILLY: 'Naturally Vain.' In the fourth. Check her out. She's due.
ETHAN'S VOICE: You can speak as if I'm right by your Where are you?
NYAH: ( picking up binoculars ) Where are you?
ETHAN'S VOICE: At the mounting enclosure, just off the tracks at two o'clock.
ETHAN: How's it going? Everything okay?
NYAH: Just like old times.
ETHAN: Just like old times?
NYAH: Just about..
ETHAN: Tell me who you've run into at Ambrose's.
NYAH: ( a breath, then: ) Near as I can tell, there's at least a half-dozen other blokes about the place. Maybe more. Hugh Stamp, an old mate of Sean's, is the only one I recognize, bit of a creep and then some..
POV ETHAN: Stamp, stands a pillar, his finger bandages, looking glum and looking down at Nyah.
ETHAN: We know him. He's over your left shoulder, looking right at you as you go on..
NYAH: - Michael, his driver's an Aussie, new to me. Then there's the blokes in the annex at the back of the house.
ETHAN: Have you met them?
NYAH: Annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house, Michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door.
ETHAN: ( looking into Champagne Bar ) I've no doubt.
BILLY: is also looking.
BILLY: Ambrose is meeting some bloke in the bar. Big bloke, ginger hair. They're into I'll be damned. It's McCloy, the Biocyte
ETHAN'S POV: I'll be damned. It's McCloy, the Biocyte
ETHAN: I'll be damned. It's McCloy, the Biocyte
LUTHER: Nekhorvich's boss?
ETHAN: Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them thirty- seven million on the London Times. What's that about?
NYAH: Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them thirty- seven million on the London Times. What's that about?
ETHAN: Bids from possible Chimera buyers to prove that as of the date on the newspaper those bids are back up by earnest money
LUTHER: Looks like Ambrose is showing McCloy how to use a digital camera.. Whatever McCloy's looking at, he's not happy about.
ETHAN: Whatever McCloy's looking at, he's not happy about.
LUTHER: Ambrose just pulled the memory card out of the digital camera and put it into an envelope, put it in his inner left jacket Left jacket pocket?
ETHAN: Left jacket pocket?
LUTHER: Roger that.
ETHAN: Confirm. Left jacket pocket.
LUTHER: Left jacket pocket confirmed.
ETHAN: Nyah, Ambrose is heading back. There's an enveloped inside
NYAH: his left jacket pocket.
ETHAN: passes by Stamp on his way back, hands him the camera.
AMBROSE: passes by Stamp on his way back, hands him the camera.
NYAH: ( after a brief pause ) Where do I meet you?
ETHAN: Betting table twelve off the paddock. Nyah, are you up to this?
NYAH: I'll muddle through.
AMBROSE: See anything you like?
NYAH: Yeah. Naturally vain but they're about to close the betting table and I haven't a
AMBROSE: ( laughing ) Billy, make sure Nyah's not followed.
ETHAN: Billy, make sure Nyah's not followed.
BILLY: No worries, mate.
NYAH: Would you mind terribly? - not at all. But you'll pay for that and with interest..
NYAH: I've no doubt..
AMBROSE: ( reaching into his pocket for money ) Hold on. Put down a couple of hundred for.
NYAH: To win?
AMBROSE: What else?
ETHAN'S VOICE: Luther, smallest digital you got. Ready to transmit. Betting table twelve.
BILLY: in dramatic contrast ambles at a conspicuously leisurely pace.
NYAH: passes Stamp, not seeing him standing just a row above, blocked from her by one of the pillars. Stamp idly regards her and then decides: he follows.
LUTHER: perspiring, approaches the betting table thru the last of the parked cars.
STAMP: approaches the door thru which Nyah had gone and starts to open it - only to have the door slammed in his face and on his bandaged finger by Billy, in a track usher's uniforms.
BILLY: ( very solicitous ) Sorry about that, mate, that must've really - aggrhh!..
STAMP: Say again?
BILLY: Whatever you're about in future, watch your step. Never know who you might run Where's the loo then?
STAMP: Whatever you're about in future, watch your step. Never know who you might run Where's the loo then?
STAMP: Where's the loo then?
BILLY: ( pointing up ) - aggrhh-aggrhh-aggrhh.
BILLY: ( croaking it out )
ETHAN'S VOICE: How'd you do? Don't turn around.
NYAH: I managed.
ETHAN: You noticed. What're you going to do? Spank me?
BILLY'S VOICE: Stamp's out of the loo. This is going to take a couple of
LUTHER: is racing back to the van.
LUTHER: There in twenty, Ethan..
BILLY'S VOICE: Stamp's a little shaky, but headed your way, mate.
ETHAN: Copy that. Who do you like? In the race?
NYAH: ( nervous, she's heard Billy too ) What race are we talking about?
LUTHER: I'm booted up. Go, Ethan.
BILLY'S VOICE: He's heading down the stairs, now..
ETHAN: I want you out of Ambrose's place.
BILLY'S VOICE: He's one tier from the bottom.
NYAH: What are you talking about?
ETHAN: I want
NYAH: Why? What's happened. What did you see?
BILLY: Thirty steps..
ETHAN: Nyah, you've done more than enough. Even the best of snake charmers get bit.
NYAH: Ethan, tell me -
BILLY'S VOICE: Twenty, nineteen..
ETHAN: I want you out of Australia! ..I don't know how much more plainly I can put it.
NYAH: How do you suggest I go about it?
ETHAN: He's touched your heart. You're overwhelmed. You need to think it over. You'll meet him somewhere in a month. If You're not out in 48 hours I'm coming in and getting you out. Give me the ear
NYAH: tries not to register alarm while she gauges how much Stamp had
STAMP: Get your bet down?
NYAH: She rises. Stamp waits only a moment then follows.
AMBROSE: Your nag is making a run for it on the Bloody hell, Nyah!
NYAH: Well, that's good, isn't?
ETHAN'S VOICE: Dr. Segi Gradski, Nekhorvich's colleague and lifelong friend.. Twenty hours and three minutes after Twenty hours. Six hours later. Six more hours. Three hours after that, Gradski was dead..
ETHAN: Six hours later. Six more hours. Three hours after that, Gradski was dead..
LUTHER: Here's a victim from the Bruny Island
BILLY: Oh, happy day.
ETHAN: Nekhorvich said 'However we travel, I must arrive at my destination within 20 hours hours of departure.'
AMBROSE: To Australia. It's made so many convicts feel at home. Here's hoping it does the same for you..
NYAH: Sean, there's something I've been meaning to talk to you about. Isn't going to be easy for me to say.
AMBROSE: ( jocular ) Then don't say it.
NYAH: I don't know what to do about you, Sean. I'm more than a bit muddled. I need time.
AMBROSE: To do what?
NYAH: Sort it all out.
AMBROSE: And you're going to have time. There's been a change of plans.
NYAH: A change of plans?
AMBROSE: Yes. We won't be able to have dinner tonight. Something's come up. I hope you don't mind.
NYAH: Oh, no, not at all. Maybe just a bit.
AMBROSE: Ulrich will be about. He'll look after
NYAH: INT - AMBROSE STUDY ( LATE AFTERNOON ) Ambrose enters, slips off his jacket and hangs it over a chair. He walks to a desk and brings up a computer the Biocyte website and McCloy infomercial. Stamp notes that Ambrose is on the computer and moves to the desk.
STAMP: I thought you were going to dinner.
AMBROSE: ( pulling up something on the computer ) Hugh, take care of the Nekhorvich memory Where is it?
STAMP: Where is it?
AMBROSE: In the envelope in my pocket. My right.. jacket..pocket.. We've got an opportunity here. I'm not going to miss it..
ETHAN: Chimera attacking human blood.. Bellerophon attacking Chimera..
BILLY: Ambrose obviously got these from Nekhorvich on the plane.
LUTHER: What manic invents disease like that in the first place? Why would he do it?
ETHAN: I don't know, but Nekhorvich was not a manic. Get me a twenty on Nyah.
LUTHER: She must still be on the property.
ETHAN: I told her to get outta there.
THE HEADLINES: announce that John C. McCloy, CEO of Biocyte, Inc., one of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies, has died of a straight and terrible strain of influenza Shocked, McCloy drops the paper, calling out:
MCCLOY: George. George. George.
MCCLOY: Bloody room..just..shut your eyes, shut your eyes.
NEKHORVICH: a shimmering blur coming in and out of focus.
NEKHORVICH: A visit from an old friend.
MCCLOY: What's happening here? You're dead!
NEKHORVICH: Fatigued, certainly. But dead is a little extreme. On the other hand, when me dear Gradski had your pulse and blood pressure he has less than ten hours to live.
MCCLOY: ( confused ) It was in the bloody papers, on the telly..what's this about Gradski?
NEKHORVICH: You are infected with
NYAH: International, please. I'd like to make a reservation on the next available flight tonight.
OPERATOR: Where to?
NYAH: Where is next available flight going?
NYAH: Fine. I'll take it.
NYAH: Silence. she goes into the kitchen. No one. She goes out the door.
ETHAN: Easy, easy, easy, shhh!
NYAH: Oh Ethan!..
ETHAN: Are you okay?
NYAH: I am now. Get me out of here. Just get me out of here.
ETHAN: It's going to be okay.
NEKHORVICH: No use, my friend. The medical staff wants no part of this. Doctors don't fancy the idea of dying any more than anybody else.
MCCLOY: How could I
NEKHORVICH: That's exactly what Gradski said - 27 hours before he died. With Chimera, the most minute exposure can be fatal.
NEKHORVICH: But then you shouldn't be feeling to ill. not for another three of four hours
MCCLOY: You have Bellerophon.
NEKHORVICH: ( mildly ) Do I?
MCCLOY: You took it! All of it! And what if I need 'If?' My, my, my.the five hundred people on Bruny Island that you deliberately infected with Chimera needed it as well.
NEKHORVICH: ( amused ) 'If?' My, my, my.the five hundred people on Bruny Island that you deliberately infected with Chimera needed it as well.
MCCLOY: Oh, please! How was I to know they had to be treated with Bellerophon within twenty By asking me.
NEKHORVICH: By asking me.
MCCLOY: You still don't get it, do you? You want to make an omelet, you break a few eggs - I needed to know just how bad the disease was - in the real world, not the lab. And you never know til you try. You thought you were genetically splicing together strains of influenza to create a cure for all influenzas. But I saw you creating a disease so terrible in Chimera that the cure would be priceless.
NEKHORVICH: You wanted the disease in order to peddle the cure.
MCCLOY: Well, the thought had occurred to me. I needed Chimera in order to peddle Bellerophon. For hero to be appreciated, you need a monster. Now that's not so difficult to understand, is it? Look, time was a shot of penicillin could knock off every bloody bug in the zoo! Not anymore!..have you any idea the R&D money it takes to float one little pissy boutique antibiotic that's barely effective against one strain of one bacterium? If I couldn't makes money killing the microscopic little shits that are out there, you'd help me put one out there I can make on!..there it is. I've confessed. I, John C. McCloy, am in business to make money. Lilly's making billions feeding Prozac to depressed dogs. Pfizer doesn't even know where to put the money they're making on Viagra, and let me tell you that shit didn't do a thing for me even at twice the recommended dose, Jesus, who do I have to screw to get a a break!..now get me out of here, get me treated and let's go back to work!..
NEKHORVICH: You know, I think it's a little late for that. Do give my regards to Gradski if you see him.
NYAH: Ethan, you know what frightens me most when I'm with him?..the thought of never seeing you..how are we getting out of here?
ETHAN: Nyah, it's very important not do anything to alarm Ambrose..
NYAH: What? You told me to get out of here. I thought you were here to collect me. I was so relieved.
ETHAN: ( with growing urgency ) No time to explain. You've done well, and we're so close. So close. It's critical that you do whatever Ambrose asks. Don't worry - it'll be over soon.. That's a promise.. Come on, now off you
LUTHER: ( disgusted by what he's heard ) So Ambrose has Bellerophon and McCloy's got Chimera.
BILLY: There guys are walking around with different halves of the same dollar bill?
ETHAN: Ambrose got Bellerophon from Nekhorvich on the plane, but he didn't get the Chimera Yeah. Why else would he come back to Australia? If he had them both, he could sell them anywhere.
LUTHER: Yeah. Why else would he come back to Australia? If he had them both, he could sell them anywhere.
ETHAN: I kill Chimera at Biocyte and he's sitting on a cure without a disease.
LUTHER: You've got the voice print, I'll get us in..
STAMP: You were right. Hunt stung McCloy tonight. He knows. They'll be going into
AMBROSE: Good..then we go where he'll be, don't we? Well done, Hugh. Well done.
MCCLOY: wakes with a start. The window's lowered Billy's in livery.
BILLY: You're home, guv'ner. Home..
MCCLOY: - where's George. My regular driver. Where is he?
BILLY: Took ill, guv'. Touch of the flu. They say it's going around. Nasty business. Mind you don't catch a chill now.
ETHAN: Luther, do you have the building up and That's not exactly it.
LUTHER: Sorry, that it a Biocyte facility, their storage structure..
ETHAN: Nyah still on the property?
BILLY: She hasn't left it. Okay, here you go -
LUTHER: Okay, here you go -
ETHAN: Let's start from the inside out.
LUTHER: All storage and production of Chimera is done here, in this lab on the forty-second floor, the heart of the building.
BIOCYTE LAB: Only about eight personnel chemists in lab coats, workers in bio-containment suits, etc. populate the lab, passing through security door and air locks, monitoring the virus stock, pading the injection gun, etc.
LUTHER'S VOICE: Chimera itself is kept in two places: in production vials in an incubation room and housed in a small airtight chamber - inside three injection guns.
BILLY'S VOICE: Mate, you kill it in both places, we're laughin' and we go home.
ETHAN: Now how to get in there.
LUTHER: No garage entrance. Lobby's protected by five guards on rotating patrol.
AMBROSE: If you look at Hunt's operational history, he invariably favors misdirection and deception. For a start he won't go into Biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security.
ETHAN: Not going in from the ground. Show me the
LUTHER'S VOICE: ( unhappily ) The atrium? One of a kind. Runs down the center of the building. Provides 24-hour natural light via mirrors and daylight storage cells. Optimal growing conditions for the virus. Ends in a glass floor which doubles as part of the lab's ceiling.
LUTHER: Hey, atrium roof closes at sundown.
LUTHER'S VOICE: And if the louvers are open for more than thirty seconds at night, the Civil Emergency alarms are tipped. Those even I can't stop. Thirty seconds total to get you in and the cable out.
ETHAN: Thirty-second opening in the roof and a 250-foot drop.
LUTHER: Thirty-second opening in the roof and a 250-foot drop.
ETHAN: I'm not waiting 48 hours. When we're done at Biocyte, if she's not out of Ambrose's, I'm going in and getting her out.
AMBROSE: No, Hunt will prefer to engage in some sort of acrobatic insanity to enter Biocyte somewhere through the atrium where security is minimal..
BILLY: Package away in five..four..three.. I'm not ready!
LUTHER: I'm not ready!
ETHAN: I'm gone..
LUTHER: ( frantically working controls ) C'mon! C'mon! C'mon!
ETHAN'S DESCENT: is so swift it appears as though he's going to hit the atrium louvers but as he reaches roof level they crack open just enough for him to dart thru like thread thru a needle Luther begins the countdown. His countdown continues, running under the action and dialogue below.
LUTHER'S VOICE: ETHAN IN MID-DESCENT ( MOVING ) moves down the shaft of bluish light, past the building's walls.
LUTHER'S VOICE: ( low )
ETHAN: Luther, I'm looking at security.
LUTHER: ( utterly shocked ) Oh. Uh. Commencing diversion. ( sotto voce, typing swiftly ) Alarm in cosmetics.
LUTHER'S VOICE: Gotta get that cable out. There it goes..
GUARD: ( sarcastic ) Right. Then I guess I'll have to trot off to see who's pinching eyeliner, won't I. ( exits, grumbling ) I'll even check the stairwell on the way.
BILLY: Retracting cable.
LUTHER'S VOICE: ( low )
BILLY'S VOICE: Cable's clear.
LUTHER: Transponder activated..Reading package and Cable is clean. He's on his way.
AMBROSE'S VOICE: He'll make the attempt at the only possible time for both of us, 11 P.M. - when the guards rotate and the buildings air-filtration generators go active, covering the sound of his break-in..
WITH LUTHER: Ethan, the generators are about to go active. We'll be out of contact for eleven minutes.
LUTHER: Ethan, the generators are about to go active. We'll be out of contact for eleven minutes.
GENERATORS: turn over and roar to life.
AMBROSE'S VOICE: The frequency of the generators operate to our advantage - cutting radio communication from his team for the next eleven minutes..
STAMP: Not exactly, mate.
LUTHER: Billy. I think we got a problem. Nyah's on the wing. Up early. Billy, do you Exactly where is she?
BILLY: Exactly where is she?
LUTHER: ..in the building.
BILLY'S VOICE: Say again. Sounds like you're saying 'she's in the building.'
LUTHER: I am. She is.
AMBROSE'S VOICE: Ethan does it the hard way to avoid confrontation. Neutralizing security guards is simply too distasteful to him..
AMBROSE'S VOICE: I've never found that a problem.
BILLY: Right. Well, then. She's not likely to be alone. is she?
LUTHER'S VOICE: The question Is 'how many of 'em?' I can't get thru to Ethan. Not 'til the generators go off.
BILLY: When's that?
LUTHER'S VOICE: Not for another eight and a half minutes.
WITH LUTHER: staring at the red and yellow blips in vertical alignment, the Yellow one, Nyah, considerably below the red one, Ethan.
MCCLOY'S VOICE: John C. McCloy..
LUTHER: It looks like Nyah's headed toward an
ETHAN: working meticulously an a computer monitor.
AMBROSE'S VOICE: If Hunt actually manages to squeak thru the atrium he's liable to make it to Chimera before we will..
CLOSE LUTHER: On his computer screen the yellow dot continues its ascent, the two dots growing ever closer.
LUTHER: She's in the elevator heading toward Ethan.
BILLY'S VOICE: How much longer before you can reach him?
LUTHER: Five and a half minutes. He's breached the hot zone..
AMBROSE'S VOICE: On the other hand we know where Hunt will be and he doesn't know we're coming..
COMPUTER VOICE: ( female ) Alert. Chimera-working-seed-stock-pH-and- temperature-level-outside-optimal range.
ETHAN: at the control panels for maintaining the virus.
BILLY'S VOICE: How're we doin', then?
LUTHER: He should've have killed the virus in the incubation area..Nyah's exited the elevator on the same level as the lab.
BILLY'S VOICE: What can we do' mate?
LUTHER: ( staring at them ) Hope he kills all the bugs before the yellow dot gets to the red one.
COMPUTER VOICE: Subject is contaminate free. Zero contaminate factor. Subject contaminate free.
LUTHER'S VOICE: He's still got three injection guns in the test lab..They're loaded with doses of Chimera which he'll destroy by firing into a hyper-thermal chamber.
LUTHER: - twenty-seven, twenty-six, twenty-five, come on, Ethan we're almost there! I-I'm off sensitive for this.. - eighteen seconds, the generators'll be off and Ethan's back on line..
WITH LUTHER: ( realizing what he's in for ) Oh - oh - oh -
LUTHER: ( realizing what he's in for ) Oh - oh - oh -
NEKHORVICH: who turns the barrel from the hyper-thermal chamber and releases into his wrist.
AMBROSE: ( to Ulrich ) Get it.
AMBROSE: Those were two explosions, your van and your safehouse, in case you didn't hear them both I believe that means you've also lost a friend.
ETHAN: And you couldn't walk to tell me about it.
AMBROSE: ( yelling ) Hold your fire, dammit! Well, Hunt. How've you been?
ETHAN: ( smiling ) Fight a bit of a cold..
AMBROSE: And you're happy about that?
ETHAN: Beats fighting the flu, I'm here to tell You know, that was the hardest part of having to portray you. Grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes.
AMBROSE: You know, that was the hardest part of having to portray you. Grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes.
ETHAN: I would've thought the hardest part was exercising restraint. Curbing that pressing need of your to get your gun off. You were in such a hurry to knock off that 747, you never figured out where the virus really was.
AMBROSE: I knew where it was.
ETHAN: Oh. then you knew the only way could smuggle the live virus to the CDC scientists in Atlanta was by injecting himself and using his own bloodstream as a Petri dish, doing it inside of twenty hours so he could take the anti-virus and still have it be effective. You knew that while you were knocking him off and destroying the very thing you came for. Stop! Put a sock in it! Hit that bloody gun and you'll spray the bloody virus all over the place!
AMBROSE: Stop! Put a sock in it! Hit that bloody gun and you'll spray the bloody virus all over the place!
ETHAN: There it is, guys, the last of it.
AMBROSE: Yep. You've provided us with a golden opportunity to have both the bug and the bug killer.
ETHAN: What was the top bid?
AMBROSE: Why, you going to make me a better offer?
ETHAN: Than thirty-seven million pounds? Not Somebody's been slipping you our mail. Come on out here, you bad girl.
AMBROSE: ( not amused ) Somebody's been slipping you our mail. Come on out here, you bad girl.
ETHAN: She doesn't belong here, Sean. Let her go.
AMBROSE: She wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you, Hunt. from this moment you're responsible for what happens to her, and if you're looking out for her well-being, I suggest you advise her to pick up the gun and bring it to me. Ball's in your court, Hunt. What've you got to say? Nyah's waiting for your answer.
LUTHER'S VOICE: ( breaking through the static ) Ethan, Nyah's in the building! Do you
ETHAN: ( dryly ) Thank you. Sure he won't shoot you the minute he's got it?
ETHAN: ( dryly ) Thank you. Sure he won't shoot you the minute he's got it?
AMBROSE: Oh, Hunt, please! One can't hold Nyah responsible for her actions..
ETHAN: In other words, you're calling her a You know women, mate. Like monkeys, they are. Won't let go of one branch til they've got a grip on the next.get it, Nyah. I'll cover you. I'm waiting.
AMBROSE: You know women, mate. Like monkeys, they are. Won't let go of one branch til they've got a grip on the next.get it, Nyah. I'll cover you. I'm waiting.
NYAH: ( not much more than body length from Ethan ) This isn't exactly working out the way you thought it would, Ethan. Sorry.
ETHAN: shocked by Nyah's gesture but as she addresses Ambrose he resets the 'Countdown' on his chronometer to twenty hours. As it drops into the nineteen:
AMBROSE: ( frustrated in the extreme )
NYAH: You're not going to shoot, Sean. Not this bitch. She's worth thirty-seven million pounds.
ETHAN: ( outraged ) What did you think you were doing!
NYAH: I wasn't thinking! Just..trying to keep you from getting hurt, that's all.
ETHAN: - you who don't have a conscience.
NYAH: ( something of surprise to her ) I guess I lied..You can't get both of us out of here, can you?
ETHAN: Then you'll have to kill me before it's too late. Before I start killing people.
NYAH: Then you'll have to kill me before it's too late. Before I start killing people.
ETHAN: I'm infected with Chimera. You know you don't have a choice. Just do it now. For god's sake, get it over with.
NYAH: I'm infected with Chimera. You know you don't have a choice. Just do it now. For god's sake, get it over with.
THE HAMMER: pulls back.
ETHAN: We've got 19 hours and 57 minutes before you start killing anybody. I'll get Bellerophon into your system by then. Just stay alive. I'm not gonna lose you.
SWANBECK: ( reading the paintings titles ) 'Dreaming of Birds and Flying Fox,' 'Bushfire Dreaming,' 'Wind Dreaming,' oddly appropriate - - since it appears that Chimera, the mother of all nightmares is on the loose somewhere around here - is there any way this disaster can be viewed as a qualified ( tight-lipped ) Not yet. We did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage.
ETHAN: ( tight-lipped ) Not yet. We did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage.
SWANBECK: We could lock down passport control and all ports of authority, but that won't stop Ambrose, and beyond him, we don't know who else we're looking for all terrorist bank accounts of which we're aware are stable. No deposits, no withdrawals. Therefore no suspects.
ETHAN: We think we've got our finger on the Do you? Even assuming you're able to prevent Ambrose selling Chimera, you've now got an additional problem. You destroyed all of Chimera at Biocyte. If Ambrose is going to sell Chimera now, he'll have to do it by taking a pint or so of Miss Hall's blood to market.
SWANBECK: Do you? Even assuming you're able to prevent Ambrose selling Chimera, you've now got an additional problem. You destroyed all of Chimera at Biocyte. If Ambrose is going to sell Chimera now, he'll have to do it by taking a pint or so of Miss Hall's blood to market.
ETHAN: Yes, I believe that's right.
SWANBECK: But that leaves another seven or eight pints of Chimera.
ETHAN: You mean that leaves Miss Hall.
SWANBECK: Yes, I believe that's right. Now my understanding is that 20 hours after exposure, the victim becomes infectious. Highly infectious.
ETHAN: She sacrificed herself..
SWANBECK: Brave girl. If you can get hold of Bellerophon with the time limit, you may spare her the ultimate sacrifice. But in either case you've got less than nine hours to kill her or cure her. After that it's out of our hands and a matter of worldwide material law. And Hunt. However you obtain it, we want you to preserve a sample of Chimera. Bring it back alive.
ETHAN: Aren't you even curious? About why she did it?
SWANBECK: No. I can't afford to be curious. And neither can you, Hunt..
AMBROSE: Feel like pleading for your life?
NYAH: ( with an edge ) Not as much as you feel like hearing it.
AMBROSE: God damn it, Nyah! Why did you do it? Why did you save that bastard?
NYAH: If it'll make you feel any better I won't do it again.
AMBROSE: If it'll make you feel any better, you're going to take a lot of Aussies with you and make me a lot of money.
NYAH: What are you talking about?
AMBROSE: In just a few hours you can be assured of going down in history as the typhoid Mary of Oz. G'day.
ETHAN: Luther drops a tiny part into his computer board and, as he tries to fish it out with the aid of a magnifying glass:
LUTHER: Ethan, I keep telling you there's not a chance of locating Nyah til I access the satellite and there's not a chance of doing that til I get this thing booted up and running! How much time does she have left?
ETHAN: Ninety-seven minutes, twenty-seven Before we kill her or cure her..
BILLY: Before we kill her or cure her..
LUTHER: Wrong. All we've got to worry about is Ambrose. Nyah will take care of Nyah.
ETHAN: Wrong. All we've got to worry about is Ambrose. Nyah will take care of Nyah.
BILLY: What are you talking about?
ETHAN: Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the next ninety-seven minutes, Nyah will kill herself. So, first things, first. Swanbeck said there's no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts.
ETHAN'S VOICE: Confirms what Ambrose is gonna do -
BILLY'S VOICE: Ethan's out from under the bridge and on the south-east face..
BILLY'S VOICE: Ethan, Ambrose and his tem have over the bridge -
ETHAN: Copy that.
BILLY'S VOICE: You all right, mate? From here it looks like very security. What's it look like like from there?
ETHAN: He's over the top and moves swiftly to cover. Ethan surprises and kills a perimeter guard, then runs to a length of grating and lifts one of the panels. Ethan climbs down through the grating in the roof of the tunnel. Using a bar to swing down, he breaks a second guard's neck and drops to the floor.
ETHAN: Breached the structure at the ten o'clock grating. In the tunnel moving toward the
CHEMIST: It's a DNA match. The blood's loaded with And they certainly have Bellerophen.
MCCLOY: Well, then. You've got both the virus and the anti-virus, Chimera and Bellerophen. Which means I've thirty million for That's all the cash I can come up with
AMBROSE: Not exactly. Wallis?
WALLIS: ( off Biocyte figures on laptop ) More like two-two point two million.
AMBROSE: In any case we don't want your cash.
MCCLOY: Then what do you want?
AMBROSE: Stock, Mr. McCloy. Stock options, to be a little more precise.. - cut her loose..right in the center of town..the more crowded the better.. How quickly can you manufacture more of the antivirus.
LUTHER'S VOICE: Ethan, just picked up an Ambrose call - Nyah's been dropped off. I think she's Where is she?
ETHAN: Where is she?
LUTHER: Somewhere in Sydney.
LUTHER'S VOICE: Ethan? Do you copy?
ETHAN'S VOICE: 'Somewhere in Sydney?' Care to harden the Can't. Until I can get the GPS up on our computer..it's still down..
LUTHER'S VOICE: Can't. Until I can get the GPS up on our computer..it's still down..
ETHAN: The clock is ticking..
MCCLOY: Bellerophen? No time at all once I've got it.
AMBROSE: Good. Biocyte stock is just a week or two away from going through the roof.
MCCLOY: ( alarmed ) What are you talking about?
AMBROSE: An outbreak of
MCCLOY: In downtown Sydney for a start. You create the supply, Mr. McCloy, we've just created the demand. Three million people in Sydney and 17 million people in Australia are going to need Bellerophen within a matter of days..not to mention the rest of the world..
AMBROSE: In downtown Sydney for a start. You create the supply, Mr. McCloy, we've just created the demand. Three million people in Sydney and 17 million people in Australia are going to need Bellerophen within a matter of days..not to mention the rest of the world..
AMBROSE: now here's the way it's going to work..Wallis, the shares outstanding are..
WALLIS: Ninety-three point four million.
AMBROSE: Which means, Mr. McCloy, we have to get our hands on four hundred and eighty thousand options. We'll borrow your thirty million to buy those options. Your stock's never sold above thirty-one dollars a share. We'll agree to buy at When your stock goes north of two hundred, and it will, those options will be worth billions. We can borrow whatever we need to buy the 48,000,000 shares, fifty-one percent of Biocyte.
MCCLOY: Outrageous. I won't let you take control of my company.
AMBROSE: Sit down. You'll be a billionaire. Better than being broke. I've got terrorists and other pharmaceutical companies standing in line. Ball's in your court, Mr. McCloy.
AMBROSE: Run that bastard down.
AMBROSE: We're running short on time, Mr. McCloy. We've got to conclude our business.
MCCLOY: Yes, start the transfer.
AMBROSE: ( to Wallis ) Follow it. Let me know.
ETHAN: You broke our deal.
STAMP: You're too trusting. Raise your hands
AMBROSE: ( to the accountant ) Keep it going.
STAMP'S VOICE: Sean, this rat's reached the end of the Is he alive?
AMBROSE: ( into walkie-talkie ) Is he alive?
STAMP'S VOICE: More or less.
AMBROSE: Bring him to me.
BILLY: ( nervously ) We're due to take off.
LUTHER: Not for seven more minutes.
WALLIS: Sean. Transfer complete.
MCCLOY: ( apprehensive ) What exactly do you intend to do with him?
LUTHER: Ethan? Ethan? Do you copy?
ETHAN: Well, mate, maybe this is one of those times we shouldn't follow orders.
AMBROSE: ( to Ethan ) What have you got to say for yourself. Hunt? Any last words? Stop mumbling.
STAMP: Afraid he's got no choice. I believe I broke his jaw.
AMBROSE: Hugh, I'm impressed..
MCCLOY: ( anxiety mounting ) What do you intend to do?
AMBROSE: You needn't watch.
AMBROSE: - right. We don't have a lot of time, Hunt. whatever you've got to say, say it
BILLY: Man at your six.
ETHAN: ( to Billy ) The field of fire is too heavy. Back off and pinpoint their positions.
AMBROSE: ( into walkie-talkie ) Hunt's heading for the bridge. Coming in at twelve o'clock high.
ETHAN: Clear that bridge for me.
LUTHER' VOICE: Roger that.
BILLY'S VOICE: They're tracking you on the left, Ethan. Prepare for some fire.
GPS COMPUTER: The target is located.
LUTHER: Ethan, the computer's up. I've got Nyah. She's moved out of the city.
ETHAN: Luther, say again.
LUTHER: She's on the North Head Bluff - approaching the cliffs. One klick away.
ETHAN: ( over increasing static ) Copy. She's only got twenty-eight minutes left. Track ahead and pick her up.
LUTHER: We won't be able to cover you.
ETHAN: You're breaking up. Track ahead and pick her up. You've got me on GPS. Bring her to me.
LUTHER: Billy, North Head. Haul ass.
WALLIS: Get him.
ULRICH: I can't get a good shot. I can't see him, mate. Slow down!
WALLIS: Shut up. I know what I'm doing.
LUTHER: ( to Billy ) Range is two kay.
BILLY: I hope there's a place to land.
BILLY: There she is. I got visual.
LUTHER: We're down to seven minutes 23 seconds..
LUTHER'S VOICE: Ethan, we've got her. Tracking to you now. We're reading 5 minutes 19 seconds.
LUTHER: ( to Billy ) Bearing two one zero. About 3 klicks. ( into microphone ) Ethan, we're moments away..
AMBROSE: Go ahead. Use it Hunt. It's not a bad way to go. A lot better than the way that bitch is going to die.
AMBROSE: Hunt. You should have killed me.
SWANBECK: Sorry, Ethan. I don't quite know where to begin. Any suggestions?
ETHAN: You'd like me to conduct my own Why not? You've done just about everything else on this operation.
SWANBECK: Why not? You've done just about everything else on this operation.
ETHAN: I'd thank you but I'm not sure that was a compliment.
SWANBECK: Of course it was. Anyone whose operations requires the level of disinformation that yours do, is bound to get a little flak here and there. You try flogging the stories on CNN I've had to come up with about what's been going on around here the last few days. At any rate, it's been most instructive what they'll swallow, or what they'll broadcast with a straight Miss Hall's blood, it appears, has absolutely no elements of the Chimera virus. Not even antibodies.
ETHAN: Yes, I gathered as much.
SWANBECK: And the only other remaining sample was in the canister you recover from Ambrose.
ETHAN: And that appears to have been destroyed. It also contained the anti-virus, Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against Chimera.
SWANBECK: And that appears to have been destroyed. It also contained the anti-virus, Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against Chimera.
ETHAN: Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only really effective against Chimera.
SWANBECK: But you were under specific instructions to bring back a living sample of the Chimera virus. I'd be very interested to know how, after you'd managed its recovery intact, it subsequently got destroyed.
ETHAN: By fire. That's the best way, really.
SWANBECK: So you didn't fail mission, you simply changed it. It's no longer enough for you to execute and implement IMF policy, you now wish to go in the business of creating it?
ETHAN: No, I don't. But in this case -
SWANBECK: In this case, it wasn't a bad idea. In face, it was a pretty damn good idea. Just don't make a habit of it. And, as for Ms. Hall, in light of her efforts, her criminal records will certainly be expunged. I'm assuming you approve.
ETHAN: I do.
SWANBECK: Where is she now, by the way? Do you I don't. No exactly.
ETHAN: I don't. No exactly.
SWANBECK: Well, Hunt, what are your plans?
ETHAN: Not sure. Some sort of vacation. I'll let you know where I'm going.
SWANBECK: Oh, you don't have to do that. Wouldn't be a vacation if you did.
SKY NEWSCASTER: This incident in the wake of rumors suddenly surfacing about Mr. McCloy and Biocyte's financial difficulties including criminal allegations of insider trading, embezzlement, conspiracy to commit fraud, and stock parking have, understandably, sent stock prices of the pharmaceutical company plummeting.
LUTHER: ( worried ) So what did he say?
ETHAN: Good job. And thanks.
BILLY: ( incredulous ) That's it? That's it? That's it?
LUTHER: ( dryly, looking at Billy ) And the check's in the mall.
BILLY: Right. Just remember, mates. Billy Baird's the name. Anything you need to get, move or watch, I'm your man.
LUTHER: Always nice hearing from you man. Stay in
NYAH: ( a tad wary ) Do you know me?
NYAH: is inches from him. Without batting an eye.
ETHAN: No. Should I?
NYAH: No. You just looked as if you did.
ETHAN: She wraps her arms around him and kisses him with considerable
NYAH: Oh. Well.. ..I think that can be arranged.
ETHAN: Let's get lost.
