MOON: Written by Nathan Parker Story by Duncan Jones
SAM: Tess. Hi. It's me. How are you, sweetheart? It's the morning here. In a few minutes Gerty and I will sit down for breakfast, go over the day's itinerary.
SAM (V.O.): Today begins my 154th week on Selene. I officially have two weeks to go before I climb into that Return Vehicle...
SAM (V.O.): And blast home.
SAM (V.O.): I never dreamed I'd make it this far.
SAM (V.O.) (CONT'D): There were times, as you know...
SAM (V.O.) (CONT'D): ...when I thought I was going to crack up.
SAM (V.O.): But I think I've come out the other side now.
SAM (V.O.): In many ways, this place is all about contradictions.
SAM (V.O.): It's bleak, it's beautiful.
SAM (V.O.) (CONT'D): It's barren, yet filled with riches.
SAM (V.O.): The earth is thousands and thousands of miles away, but sometimes looks so close I feel like I could reach out and snatch it with my hand.
SAM (V.O.): I'm incredibly lonely, yet I'm never alone...
SAM (V.O.) (CONT'D): Because I have you.
SAM (V.O.) (CONT'D): And I have Eve. I don't take you guys for granted. You know that now.
SAM: Please kiss Eve for me. And tell her daddy will only be away a little longer -- seventeen days longer, approximately. I love you both dearly. Bye.
SAM: Morning, Gerty.
GERTY: Morning, Sam. How are you today?
SAM: Fine. Fine. You?
GERTY: I'm very well. How's your headache?
SAM: Much better, thanks, pal.
VOICE ON RADIO: ...it's a hot one on the East Coast, temperatures soaring to a high of ninety three degrees in New York City --
SAM: 8:32 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 1. All Harvesters running smoothly this morning. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 14.6 miles; Mark 16.8 miles...
SAM: Gerty, we've got a live one on Mark. I'm going out now to rope her in.
GERTY'S VOICE: Okay, Sam.
SAM: Sam Bell reporting to Central. 10:14 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 1. (less formal) Overmeyers, Thompson? It's Sam. How goes it? I've got a full container of Helium3 ready to roll. The purity is pretty good, so assuming your last market prices are still relevant I think you are looking at getting about 3 million dollars per kilo with this load. By the time this message reaches you it should be in transit. (a beat) Otherwise, everything running smoothly. There was a discrepancy between a couple of the N3000 modulators a couple of days ago, but Gerty and I caught it in time, no big deal. Uh...how are things down there?
SAM (CONT'D): Oh, and I just wanted to thank you for sending out the football feed. Almost felt live! (getting pissed off) Seriously, I don't mean to be an asshole, but surely replacing one satellite cant be that fucking hard! I haven't been able to have a conversation with my wife... My kid can talk now...! Fuck! Two weeks. Two weeks. (beat) Hey. Three years is a long haul. If you guys want to run some psych evals on me when I get back, I'm happy to do it. It ain't Disney World up here. (a beat) That's it. Over and out.
GERTY: Sam, is everything okay?
SAM: Everything's fine, Gerty.
SAM (CONT'D): Why do you ask?
GERTY: You don't seem like yourself today.
SAM: It's Tess.
GERTY: Has something happened?
SAM: No, not exactly.
GERTY: Sam, what is it?
SAM: Something doesn't feel right, that's all.
GERTY: Sam, it might help to talk about it.
SAM: Tess isn't responding to things.
GERTY: Tess isn't responding to things?
SAM: Right.
GERTY: What kind of things?
SAM: (a beat) A couple of weeks ago I asked her if she wanted to go on vacation when I get back, and that I was thinking of either Mexico or Hawaii.
SAM (CONT'D): Tess never said anything about it. Three messages she's sent me since...and she's never once mentioned the vacation.
GERTY: Im sure she can't wait, Sam.
SAM: That's not the point. This is someone who lives for vacations and travelling. I thought she'd jump at the chance for us to go away -- with Eve, of course -- we'd take Eve.
GERTY: Perhaps Tess didn't receive the message?
SAM: (as if anticipating Gerty's comment) But this isn't the only time it's happened, Gerty. When I asked her how her dad was doing on his new heart medicine she didn't respond to that -- I asked her when Eve was going to start nursery -- nothing. Had her brother got the position at the University? Nothing. Nothing.
GERTY: I think her brother did get the position at the University. His name is Christopher, correct?
SAM: He did?
GERTY: Yes, I seem to recall he got the position. Professor of Biochemistry, I think. At Syracuse University in New York?
SAM: How do you know that?
GERTY: You told me. Some time ago now. Towards the beginning of your time on Selene. When we were starting to get to know each other. (a beat) You were very happy for your brother-in-law. You danced around the Rec Room, if I remember correctly.
SAM: Gerty, have you heard anything new about anyone fixing lunar sat?
GERTY: No Sam. From what I understand it's fairly low on the companies priority list with the Jupiter mission active. I would imagine it would be very expensive to fix.
GERTY (CONT'D): Sam, are you ok?
SAM: They need to sort that out. Seriously. I've only got two weeks left. It's not fair on whoever's up here next. Gerty, you tell them to sort it out. It's not healthy.
GERTY: I will Sam. Do you want me to finish cutting your hair later?
SAM: Nah. Come on.   Let's finish this.
SAM (CONT'D): I've got another one of those headaches. Can you get me something for it?
GERTY: Of course. Now?
SAM: No not now, afterwards.
SAM (CONT'D): Thanks, pal.
OVERMEYERS: Delighted to hear about the latest shipment, Sam.
THOMPSON: According to Albatross 90 it should be landing off the California Coast within the next three days.
OVERMEYERS: Now in response to your question about the communications equipment, the news is not good.
THOMPSON: Sam, those solar storms did a lot more damage than initially thought --
OVERMEYERS: Fixing the lunar sat is going to take some time. It's a significant operation.
THOMPSON: And what with the Jupiter Program hemorrhaging money --
OVERMEYERS: Lunar doesn't have the budget it once did, Sam, you know that.
THOMPSON: Even the coffee machine down in the Hub has been broken since I don't know when --
OVERMEYERS: We have to go to Genesis 3 just to get a decent cup of coffee, Sam. Genesis 3. That's three buildings over.
THOMPSON: We're hoping to get the live feed up and running by the Fall. The good news is you'll be home by then, Sam.
OVERMEYERS: You only have two weeks to go! Congrat--
GERTY'S VOICE: Sam, a transmission has arrived from your wife.
SAM: Be right there.
TESS: Hi Sam. It's me. How are you? (a beat) I got your last message, it was really great to hear your voice. I know you've been really lonely up there, but in a lot of ways it's been good for you, I think. I hope you don't mind me saying that. I'm proud of you. (a beat) Hey, someone's got something to say.
TESS (CONT'D): Eve, it's daddy. What did you want to say to him?
EVE: Asstraut.
TESS: Who's an astronaut? (encouraging) Go on!
EVE: Daddy asstraut!
TESS: That's right, daddy's an astronaut. Clever girl!
TESS (CONT'D): She's shy. Uh, Cathy, could you...?
TESS (CONT'D): It's her birthday next month. I thought we'd get her a play house for the garden. We could even pick it out together.
TESS (CONT'D): God, I hate these things. Sam, I love you. I'm thinking of you always. I can't wait to see you, sweetheart. Okay. Bye.
SAM: What's on the menu tonight, Gerty?
GERTY: Baby back ribs with french fries and spinach.
SAM: Ribs! Good choice, pal. Fine choice.
SAM (CONT'D): Oh yeah! Compliments to the chef, Gerty, this is delicious!
SAM: I'm going to feel that for a while, aren't I, Gerty? (then) Damn it.
GERTY: Sam, can I ask how it happened?
SAM: I told you, I saw something on the TV and spilled boiling water on my hand.
GERTY: You saw something on the TV?
SAM: (a touch petulant) Yeah, something on the TV distracted me, Gerty, what's wrong with that?
GERTY: Sam, you said it was the TV that distracted you, but when I came in the TV wasn't on.
GERTY (CONT'D): Perhaps you were imagining things?
SAM: Morning, Gerty.
GERTY: Morning, Sam. How are you today?
SAM: Fine. Fine.
GERTY: How's the hand?
SAM: It's a little sore.
SAM: 8:19 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 2. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 9.8 Miles...
SAM (CONT'D): Luke...7.3 miles...wow, better look into Luke...
SAM (CONT'D): Mark, 11 miles on the button...
SAM: Gerty, looks like we've got a live one out on Matthew. I wondered what was taking him so long, the old fart. I'm heading out in a few minutes, just going to finish my coffee.
GERTY'S VOICE: Okay, Sam.
SAM: Where am I?
GERTY: Sam, you're in the Infirmary. You had an accident.
GERTY (CONT'D): Do you remember what happened?
SAM: No. (a beat) I don't remember a thing.
GERTY: Do you remember me?
SAM: Yes, of course I remember you, Gerty.
GERTY: That's good. That's very good. It's nice to see you awake again. (a beat) I'd like to keep you under observation here in the Infirmary for a few days and run some tests.
SAM: How long have I been out?
GERTY: Not long. Sam, go back to sleep. You're still very tired. We can talk later.
SAM: Gerty?
SAM: Gerty?
GERTY (0.S): These were extraordinary circumstances, as you know --
GERTY: Sam, you're out of bed.
SAM: I wanted to stretch my legs. (then) What was that?
GERTY: Not talking. No. We've been having some problems with the lunar sat and our live feed seems to be down. I was recording a video message for Central updating them on your progress. (a beat) Sam, you need to stay in bed. You're not ready to walk around yet.
GERTY: Excellent, Sam.
SAM: How much longer do I have to be in here, Gerty?
GERTY: Sam, you suffered minor brain damage in the crash. This has resulted in memory loss and slight logic impairment.
SAM: When can I get back to work?
GERTY: Central has asked me to slow down the Harvesters to ensure you have time to recuperate and get your strength back --
SAM: (dryly, exasperated) Terrific.
GERTY: The good news is you can return to the sleeping quarters tomorrow. But it will still be a few more days before you can resume anything like a normal work schedule.
SAM: Gerty, do you know about this?
SAM (CONT'D): Matthew's got no velocity read- out. He's completely still.
GERTY (O.S.): He must have stalled.
SAM: There's no way to tell from here if a track's been thrown, or if it's just something jammed in an axle, or what... I can shoot out there, check it out, get some video and maybe save you guys the expense of floating in a whole crew! I know how tight money is right now....
SAM (CONT'D): Just give me the word -- or Gerty the word, tell him to unlock the exit doors -- and I'll go out and get Matthew up and running again. (a beat) That's it. Over and out.
THOMPSON: Sam, we appreciate the offer, but you concentrate on feeling better.
SAM: (muttering, vexed) Oh for Christ's sake...
OVERMEYERS: We don't want you to take any unnecessary risks. You're too important to us.
THOMPSON: You're to stay put, understand?
OVERMEYERS: It's an order.
THOMPSON: It's an order, Sam. From Lunar. Stay put.
OVERMEYERS: We're going to send a Rescue Unit to tend to the stalled harvester and get the base back on its feet.
SAM: (incensed) Why?
GERTY: I'm sorry Sam.
GERTY (CONT'D): Sam, I am under strict orders not to let you outside.
TESS: He's kicking...or she's kicking. I'm certain he's a boy. I wish you could feel it. (a beat, shifting) I think we made the right choice, Sam. I really do. We need some time apart. We got stuck. That happens in marriages sometimes. It's nothing terrible. (then) Well listen, I love you lots -- and we'll talk soon, okay? Bye Sam.
SAM: Fuck it.
SAM: Gerty! Get over here! Quickly!
GERTY: What happened?
SAM: Don't know -- Micro meteorites, maybe? Either way there might be damage to the exterior shell. I'd better go outside and take a look.
GERTY: There is no damage to the exterior shell.
SAM: It's not that I don't believe you, Gerty, but the inner skin is springing leaks like an ACME fire hose. Maybe you better let me take a look, just in case, huh?
GERTY: Sam, I'm not supposed to let you go outside.
SAM: Then let's keep it between you and me then. Ok?
GERTY: Okay, Sam.
SAM: Gerty! Gerty! Help!
SAM: Gerty!
SAM (CONT'D): I found him outside by the stalled harvester. Who is he? What the fuck is going on?
SAM (CONT'D): (demanding an answer) Gerty!
GERTY: We need to get him to the Infirmary.
SAM: Not until you tell me who he is!
GERTY: Sam, we need to get him to the Infirmary immediately.
SAM: Who is he! Who is he!
GERTY: Hello Sam. (a beat) How are you feeling?
SAM 1: Where am I?
GERTY: The Infirmary. You had an accident out by one of the harvesters. Do you remember?
SAM 1: I saw someone out there, Gerty.
GERTY: Who did you see, Sam?
SAM 1: I saw a girl.
GERTY: You saw a girl out by the harvester? How is that possible?
GERTY (CONT'D): Sam, you suffered a slight concussion in the crash and have incurred minor injuries, but all in all the prognosis is good. I'm happy to see you again.
SAM 1: Gerty?
GERTY: Yes, Sam?
SAM 1: Is there someone in the room with us?
GERTY: Yes.
SAM 1: Who is he?
GERTY: Sam, get some sleep. You're very tired.
SAM 1: Hi.
SAM 1: Gerty, what the hell is going on? Who is that guy in the Rec Room? Where did he come from? Why does he look like me?
GERTY: Sam, you're out of bed.
SAM 1: Yes, Gerty, I'm out of bed.   Who is the guy in the rec room?
GERTY: Sam Bell.
SAM 1: Who the fuck is in the rec room, Gerty!?
GERTY: You are Sam Bell.
GERTY (CONT'D): Sam, what is it? It might help to talk about it.
SAM 1: I don't understand what's happening, Gerty. I think I may be losing my mind.
GERTY: We could run some tests. (a beat) I haven't reported anything to central, Sam. They don't know you were recovered alive from the accident.
SAM 1: Recovered alive? What do you mean? Why haven't you reported to central?
GERTY: I'm here to keep you safe, Sam. I want to help you. Are you hungry?
SAM 1: You're Sam Bell.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): I'm Sam Bell, too.
SAM 2: Yeah.
SAM 1: This is fucked up.
SAM 2: Completely.
SAM 1: Why... What are you?
SAM 2: I'm a clone, Sam.    Im a fucking clone.
SAM 1: How long have you been here?
SAM 2: About a week.
SAM 1: How are you getting on?
SAM 2: (repeating the question slowly) How am I getting on? (then) The company ordered Gerty to lock all the exits. I haven't been able to do anything for seven days but sit on my ass.
SAM 1: They locked all the exits? What about the harvesters?
SAM 2: Slowed them down to half speed, apparently.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): And then when I finally trick Gerty into letting me outside I find a clone of myself in a crashed rover. How am I getting on? Oh I'm loving it.
SAM 1: I'm not a clone.
SAM 2: Ok, Sam.   You're not a clone.
SAM 1: You're the clone.
SAM 2: How long have you been here?
SAM 1: Almost three years.
SAM 2: Hence the Captain's beard.
SAM 1: (with a smile) Right.
SAM 2: I didn't know it could get so thick. Does it itch?
SAM 1: No, not really.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Listen, I wanted to say thank- you. If it wasn't for you I'd still be out there in the crashed rover. You saved my life. (then) Will you shake my hand?
SAM 2: (self-conscious) What?
SAM 1: You look just like me. It's incredible.
SAM 2: Why do I look like you? Why don't you look like me?
SAM 1: We look like each other, I guess.
SAM 1: Your serve.
SAM 2: Score?
SAM 1: Two points to eighteen.
SAM 2: Fuck!
SAM 2: How long did it take you to do this?
SAM 1: I don't remember doing all of it. I remember when I did the church and the Salvation Army. And a few of the people. My mind's been acting kind of weird lately, though.
SAM 2: It's Fairfield, right? (pointing) There's Town Hall.
SAM 1: Uh-huh. You know Fairfield? (also pointing) That's the Baskin&Robbins. And there's Tess and Eve. Do you know Tess?
SAM 2: Yes.   I know Tess.
SAM 1: You know about Eve, right?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): We had a girl.
SAM 2: We did? (beat) She thought she was going to have a boy. She was so sure. (then) Eve?
SAM 1: She's beautiful. She's really beautiful.
SAM 2: How much did she weigh? Isn't that what you're supposed to ask, how much did she weigh?
SAM 1: Nine pounds, eleven ounces.
GERTY'S VOICE: Sam, a message has arrived from Central.
OVERMEYERS: Greetings, Sam!
THOMPSON: How's our Man? Feeling better?
OVERMEYERS: You getting lots of rest?
THOMPSON: Yeah, you resting up, Sam? You'd better be you bastard.
OVERMEYERS: Enjoy it while it lasts! We've got good news.
THOMPSON: The Jupiter Program had to be put on hiatus, so we've got a few free pairs of hands --
OVERMEYERS: We've managed to secure you a Rescue Unit ahead of schedule.
THOMPSON: Rescue Unit Eliza.
OVERMEYERS: They've been stationed on Goliath 19 for the last couple of months.
THOMPSON (O.S.): Eliza's been in transit for the last day....we expect them to reach you in approximately 14 hours.
OVERMEYERS (O.S.): Commence to jump for joy!
THOMPSON (O.S.): You'll be back to work in no time.
OVERMEYERS: Eliza is bringing you something special, Sam. Compliments of the company.
THOMPSON: A hooker!
OVERMEYERS: No not a hooker. What's wrong with you? It's a little something to drink, Sam, that's all, our way of patting you on the back for all that you've been through.
THOMPSON: In the meantime, keep resting up, and hang in there.
OVERMEYERS: Yeah you hang in there, Sam. Over and out.
SAM 1: They're sending a Rescue Unit? Why?
SAM 2: To fix the stalled harvester. They didn't think I was up to it.
SAM 1: Then I'm going back.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): I've done my three years. That's it for me --
SAM 1 (CONT'D): What?
SAM 2: Is that what you really think?
SAM 1: I've got a contract --
SAM 2: You're a fucking clone! You don't have shit!
SAM 1: I'm going home!
SAM 2: You're not going anywhere!
SAM 2 (CONT'D): You've been up here too long, man! You've lost the plot!
SAM 2: What, you think Tess is back home waiting for you? What about the original Sam?
SAM 1: I'm the original! I'm Sam fucking Bell! Me! Me!
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Gerty, am I a clone?
GERTY: Yes, Sam.
SAM 2: What about the other clones?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Yeah, we might not be the first two to be woken up. (indicating the model) You said that thing had already been started when you got here. Well, who started it? (then) There might be other clones up here right now. Think about it. How did I get here so quickly after your crash? They didn't ship me in from Central, there wasn't time. I must have come from the base.
SAM 1: That's ridiculous. Impossible. Why would hey do that?
SAM 2: I bet there's some kind of secret room --
SAM 1: (laughing) Secret room?
SAM 2: Yeah, secret room, why not?
SAM 1: (losing his cool) You're the one who's lost the plot! I've been here for three years. I know every inch of this base. I know how many dust fibres are between those wall panels over there -- why would they do that?!
SAM 2: Look. It's a company, right? They have investors, shareholders -- shit like that. What's cheaper? Spending time and money training new personnel or just have a couple of spares here to do the job. If they make it through their contract, great. If they don't, hallelujah! No contract completion fees, no retirement package. Just thaw out the spare, and keep the profits rolling in. It's the far side of the Moon, Sam! The tight fuck's haven't even fixed our communications satellite.
SAM 1: Tess would know.
SAM 2: Do you really think they give a shit about us? They're laughing all the way to the bank!
SAM 1: Tess would know what's going on! She wouldn't let that happen!
SAM 2: (exhasperated) There's some area we don't know about. I'm going to find it.
SAM 1: I told you.
SAM 2: Shut-up!
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Get out of the way.
SAM 1: Why?
SAM 2: I want to check underneath there.
SAM 1: You're not moving the model.
SAM 2: Get the fuck out of my way!
SAM 1: No.
SAM 2: You okay?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): I hardly touched you.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Let me see.
SAM 1: Get off me!
SAM 1: Who are you?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): (shouting) Who are you!
GERTY: Hello Sam.
SAM 1: Hi Gerty.
GERTY: Sam, is everything okay?
SAM 1: We had a fight. Me and the other guy, the other Sam. We had a fight, Gerty. He's a maniac. You know what he did? He flipped the entire model over. Do you know how much work I've put into that thing?
GERTY: 938 hours.
SAM 1: 938 hours, exactly. (then) Really? 938 hours.
GERTY: Approximately.
SAM 1: (a beat) He scares me, Gerty.
GERTY: What is it about Sam that scares you?
SAM 1: He flies off the handle. I see it now...I see what Tess was talking about. (a beat) I've never told you this, Gerty, but she left me. Tess left me. For six months. She moved back in with her parents.
GERTY: I know.
SAM 1: Oh... (beat) It was the year before I came in here. She gave me a second chance. I promised her I'd change.
GERTY: You have changed, Sam.
SAM 1: Yeah, I guess I have.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Gerty, since I've been up here I've sent Tess over a hundred video messages. Where did those messages go? Did they ever reach her?
GERTY: Sam, I can only account for what occurs on the base.
SAM 1: What about the messages she sent to me?
GERTY: Sam, I can only account for what occurs on the base.
SAM 1: Gerty, am I really a clone?
GERTY: Sam, when you first arrived at Selene, there was a small crash. You woke up in the infirmary. You suffered minor brain damage and memory loss. I kept you under observation and ran some tests.
SAM 1: I remember.
GERTY: Sam, there was no crash. You were being awakened. (a beat) It is standard procedure for all new clones to be given tests to establish mental stability and general physical health. Genetic abnormalities and minor duplication errors in the DNA can have considerable impact--
SAM 1: And Tess?    Eve?
GERTY: They are memory implants, Sam. I'm very sorry.
GERTY (CONT'D): Sam, it's been several hours since your last meal. Can I prepare you something?
SAM 1: No thanks, Gerty.
SAM 1: You okay?
SAM 2: I'm staring into space. (points to the window) Get it?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): How's the nose?
SAM 1: Better.
SAM 2: Listen, I went haywire before. I lost it. I'm sorry.
SAM 1: It's okay.
SAM 2: No it's not okay. I fucked up Fairfield -- your model -- that's unacceptable. I don't know what's wrong with me. (then) I've got a temper. I need to do something about it.
SAM 1: Yes you do.
SAM 2: I've been thinking. That Rescue Unit -- Eliza -- they'll be here in less than fourteen hours. I don't know about you but I'd like to figure out where we stand before they get here.
SAM 1: Absolutely.
SAM 2: Ostensibly they're coming to deal with the stalled harvester. We both know that isn't true. (then) They're coming to dig your body out of that rover. They think you're in there.
SAM 1: Right.
SAM 2: What'll their reaction be when they find out you survived the crash? I wasn't supposed to find you. Lunar instructed Gerty to lock me inside the base for Christ's sake.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): And there's something else. Something I haven't told you. (a beat)
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Right around the time I was awakened...I walked in on Gerty talking to Central. He was having a live conversation.
SAM 1: A live conversation?
SAM 2: Yeah.
SAM 1: That's not possible.
SAM 2: No no no, it is possible. It's possible because I saw it, that's my point.
SAM 1: How do you know the conversation was live?
SAM 2: It was a back and forth exchange. And I saw Thompson and Overmeyers up on the monitor. I was supposed to be asleep in the Infirmary. The moment I walked into the comms room Gerty terminated the transmission. Now I was a little drugged up, granted, but I didn't imagine it.
SAM 1: The communications equipment is damaged -- there was a solar storm --
SAM 2: Tabitha.
SAM 1: Tabitha, right.
SAM 2: Lunar made it up. Maybe. I don't know. Bottom line is they don't want us to be able to contact Earth. Otherwise why would they have lied to us?
SAM 1: How are they blocking the live feed? The base's communications equipment works fine --
SAM 2: Maybe they're not blocking the signal from inside the base.
SAM 1: From where then?
SAM 1: Just passing the last of the Harvesters -- looks like John --
SAM 2: How long until you're out of the base's range?
SAM 1: If I maintain this speed...a minute. Ninety seconds tops.
SAM 2: You ever been this far out?
SAM 1: No, never.
SAM 1: You see anything yet?
SAM 2: Nothing. You?
SAM 1: There isn't shit out here...I feel like I'm about to drive off the end of the world. (then) It would help if I knew what I was looking for.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Wait a second, wait a second.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): I see something.
SAM 2: What is it?
SAM 1: Don't know yet.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Looks like some kind of antenna.
SAM 2: Antenna? Really? (then) Hang on, looks like there's one on this side too.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): I can just make out the top. Must be a hundred feet tall at least. It's huge!
SAM 1: Whoever built these things meant business. They weren't fucking around.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): What do you think?
SAM 2: Its not an antennae, dude. Its a jammer. (looking around) No wonder we can't get a live feed. These things must be blocking our signal.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): You okay?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Sam?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Sam, can you hear me?
SAM 1: Yeah, I hear you. (then) I'm going to head back to base. I'm not feeling too good.
SAM 2: I'll stay out here a little longer. I want to see if there are any more of these things.
SAM 1: Fuck!
SAM 1: (on screen) January 12th, Lunar hour 8:32. All Harvesters running smoothly today. Readouts are as follows: Matthew, 12.7 miles; Mark 11.9 miles...
SAM 1 (CONT'D): (on the screen) Luke, 12.9 miles; John, 11.1 miles...
SAM: (on screen) ...John, 15.1 miles...sorry, I'm not feeling too hot today -- I'm going to have to continue this later --
SAM 4: ...I've got blood coming out of my nose...
SAM 5: I don't feel too well, Old Man.
SAM 6: My hair's falling out...look it.
TECHNICIAN: ...relax and breathe deeply. The cryo pod is designed to put you into a deep sleep for the duration of your three day return journey back to Earth. As you begin to get sleepy, think about the magnificent job you've done, and how proud your family are of what you've accomplished.
SAM 2: I saw three more of those jammers. The base is surrounded. I printed out their coordinates --
SAM 2 (CONT'D): What? What is it?
SAM 1: I found your secret room.
SAM 2: Who goes first?
SAM 2: Is there a light?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Why are there so many of them?
SAM 1: The cryo pod in the Return Vehicle is an incinerator.
SAM 2: What?
SAM 1: We don't go home. We're burned to death up there. Then the company wakes up a new one. Every three years. Like clock work.
SAM 2: How do you know all this?
SAM 1: (beat) I hacked into the Old Man. Actually, Gerty did. I saw footage. You're right, there have been other clones before us.
SAM 2: How many?
SAM 1: Enough.
SAM 2: If that Rescue Unit finds the two of us awake at the same time, they'll kill us both for sure.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): What are we going to do?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Where are you going?
GERTY: Sam, can I help you with something?
SAM 1: Not now, Gerty, okay?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Gerty? Why did you help me? With the password? Doesn't that go against your programming or something?
GERTY: Helping you is what I do.
SAM 2: What's going on?
SAM 1: There's something I've got to do.
SAM 1: Come on...come on...
GIRL: Hello?
SAM 1: Uh, Bell residence?
GIRL: This is the Bell Residence.
SAM 1: I'm trying to reach Tess Bell.
GIRL: I'm sorry, she passed away some years ago.
SAM 1: No...no way.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Tess Bell? Are you sure?
GIRL: Uh, yeah, I think so. I'm her daughter. (then) Can I help you?
SAM 1: Eve?
EVE BELL: Yes?
SAM 1: (overwhelmed) Hi... Hi. Eve. How old are you now?
EVE BELL: I'm fifteen. (then) Do I know you?
SAM 1: How did mom die, sweetheart?
EVE BELL: Uh...
EVE BELL (CONT'D): Dad!
SAM'S VOICE (O.S.): What!
EVE BELL: Dad, there's someone asking about mom...
SAM'S VOICE: Who's asking about mom?
SAM 1: Want me to help?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): Remember that crazy drunk guy who used to hang out by the church?
SAM 2: Barbara Streisand?
SAM 1: (with a smile) He looked like Barbara Streisand. We used to hide his Bible when he passed out. Drove the guy nuts.
SAM 2: How do you carve these things?
SAM 1: Want me to show you?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): You need to hold the wood away from you. Like this.
SAM 2: You're shaking.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Why are you shaking?
SAM 1: Watch what I'm doing. (then) You watching?
SAM 2: Yeah.
SAM 1: Now you try.
SAM 2: I suck.
SAM 1: You'll get the hang of it. (a beat) You see, that's a little better already.
SAM 2: What's happening to you?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Listen, I realize I've been less than cooperative. But I want to change that. You and me, we need to work together. And that starts with not keeping secrets from each other. (a beat) Now what's going on?
SAM 1: I think I'm dying.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): There's blood in everything. My urine. My vomit. I've got a constant headache. Dizzy spells. (a beat) The same thing happened to the other clones. I saw it when I hacked into the Old Man. After three years they all started to get sick. Now it's happening to me. Well, it's been happening for a while now. A couple of weeks.
SAM 2: What do you think it is?
SAM 1: Maybe we don't live that long. Maybe we start to decompose or something.
SAM 2: Jesus.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Hey hey hey, you okay?
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Why don't you lie down for a while? Take some tranqs. Get some sleep.
SAM 1: (grim smile) No tranqs. I don't think I would ever wake up again.
SAM 1 (O.S.): Uh, Bell Residence?
EVE: This is the Bell residence.
SAM 2: (commenting as he watches) No you didn't...
SAM 1 (O.S.): I'm trying to reach Tess Bell.
EVE: I'm sorry, she passed away some years ago.
SAM 1 (O.S.): Tess Bell? Are you sure?
EVE: Uh, yeah, I think so, I'm her daughter. (then) Can I help you?
SAM 2: Gerty, I need to talk to you.
GERTY: Of course, Sam, how can I help?
SAM 2: We found the hidden room. We know about the other clones.
GERTY: I don't know of a hidden room.
SAM 2: The hidden room under the Return Vehicle, Gerty. You know what I'm talking about. We found it on our own. Lunar doesn't know anything about it.
GERTY: The lower deck is out of bounds to awakened clones --
SAM 2: Ordinarily, Gerty, but what with there being two of us awake at the same time, and what with the situation being unprecedented, the rules have had to change. Do you understand?
GERTY: I understand the situation is unprecedented.
SAM 2: Good. (a beat) Gerty, how long does it take for a clone to wake up?
GERTY: A clone is awake the moment his pod is opened. But he is not fully conscious for several hours.
SAM 2: Gerty, we need to wake up a new clone.
GERTY: I am not permitted to do that, Sam.
SAM 2: If we don't wake up another clone me and the other Sam will die. We'll die, Gerty. Do you understand?
GERTY: Yes.
SAM 2: Do you want me and the other Sam to die?
GERTY: That is the last thing I want.
SAM 2: Then you have to wake up a new clone. Okay, pal?
SAM 2: Don't touch him.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): He's not conscious yet. Gerty and I only woke him up a few hours ago.
SAM 1: Why?
SAM 2: Come to the Rec Room.
SAM 2: When the Rescue Unit arrives they'll expect to find a body in the crashed Rover, right? (a beat) We've got our body.
SAM 1: (points towards the Infirmary) That guy?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): They'll expect to find a dead body in the crashed Rover.
SAM 2: I know.
SAM 1: (stunned) You're going to kill him?
SAM 2: Someone's got to pull the short straw here, better someone who's unconscious than you or me.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): If we go through with this, I'm going to need your help hauling him out to the crash site.
SAM 1: What about us? Eliza arrives, finds you and me as the welcome party --
SAM 2: They're not going to find you and me as the welcome party, they're going to find me. You're going to blast back to Earth before they get here in one of the Helium 3 containers. (a beat) You're going home.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): You've done your three years. I can't expect you to stick around. Maybe you can meet Eve in person.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): I saw the message on the VP. Eve is beautiful. She looks like her mom.
SAM 1: How do you think she died?
SAM 2: I don't know. (then) Jane died of cancer. I mean, it was in the family. Who knows? Or maybe it was an accident? Could have been a million things.
SAM 1: I wish I'd been there.
SAM 2: Yeah. Me too.
SAM 2: Go for it.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Comfy?
SAM 1: No.
SAM 2: But you fit. That's good. You fit.
SAM 2: Sam Bell reporting to Central. 19:14 Pacific Time. Lunar Day 14. (a beat) Evening Overmeyers, evening Thompson! According to the Old Man Rescue Unit Eliza will be here in just over three hours. Not a moment too soon! I never thought I'd say this, but I want to get out there, I want to work. I feel like a kid who's been grounded. Looking forward to Eliza straightening everything out and things getting back to normal around here. Well...that's it. I'll let you know how it goes. Over and out, gentlemen.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): Bastards.
TESS: Come on!
SAM 2 (O.S.): Sam?
SAM 2: We need to do it. We need to do it now. He'll be conscious any minute. (a beat) We've been putting it off for long enough.
SAM 1: We don't have to do anything. I changed my mind.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): I'm not going back. (a beat) I'm coughing up blood, I'm as white as a ghost. I look like I belong in a graveyard. I meet Eve now, I'll scare the shit out of her more than anything else. D'you think she'll even come within ten feet of me, the way I look?
SAM 2: What are you talking about? She's your daughter, man! She's not going to care what you...
SAM 1: (angry) She's not! She's not... my daughter. At least, I'm not her father. Not to her.
SAM 1 (CONT'D): I'll put myself in the Rover, I'll be the body -- it was me to begin with anyway, right? You go back to Earth. You go back. You're healthy. You've got three years ahead of you. You stand a much better chance than I do. The other guy....Gerty can get him up to speed...he can be here to meet Eliza when they arrive.
SAM 2: This is wrong. What are we supposed to do? Sit around here and wait to die? Fuck that!
SAM 1: I don't know. (beat) It's what we were designed to do.
SAM 2: Screw that! I'll go! ...And I'm going to find this asshole, Sam Bell, and ask him why the hell he put us through this shit!
SAM 2 (CONT'D): I'll be careful. I'll keep Eve out of it. She wont even know I exist.
SAM 1: You're a good guy, Sam.
SAM 2: I might stop shaving; It suits us. (beat) If all our memories are implants, no disrespect, but I think its about time I got some of my own, as well.
SAM 1: Yeah. You should travel.     I've always wanted to do that.
SAM 2: I'd like that.
SAM 1: Tess came in for the interview, remember?
SAM 1 (CONT'D): She was so beautiful. Even   if she wasn't the best candidate,   I just knew I had to give her the   job. I thought she was so sweet. (a beat) And then it was the end of   the summer.
SAM 2: She was going back to San Francisco.
SAM 2 (CONT'D): You knew you had to take a chance. So you called her. You were terrified and wrote that whole speech for her answer machine -- (a beat) But I didn't need it because Tess answered the phone. And I could tell in her voice as we talked, she was thinking... "Why has Sam called me?" "The internship's over, why's he called me at home?" And then I asked her if she was going to Adrian Fiddle's barbecue and...
SAM 2 (CONT'D): That's when I knew she liked me. Because she didn't want to talk to anyone else! She'd get up, get some potato salad, go to the bathroom, but she'd always come back. And then we kissed. On the steps in front of her apartment building.
SAM 2: How long before he's conscious, Gerty?
GERTY: The new clone will be conscious within one hour.
SAM 2: That's good. That's very good.
GERTY: Sam?   Where is Sam?
SAM 2: He's gone home, Gerty.
GERTY: Sam, this is not going to work.
SAM 2: What? Why not?
GERTY: If the Rescue Unit examine my memory banks they will discover what has taken place over the last week. As you know I record everything. If they are suspicious, the first thing they will do is search my memory banks, and this would put you in considerable danger.
GERTY (CONT'D): I recommend erasing my memory banks. I can reboot myself once you have departed.
SAM 2: So that's what we're going to have to do. (beat) Are you ok with that?
GERTY: I'll require your assistance, Sam.
SAM 2: Sure, just let me finish this.
TESS: Come on, Sam! Sam Bell! Come on!
SAM 2: I've set your computer to reboot the second I've blasted off.
GERTY: Okay, Sam.
SAM 2: Thanks for all your help, Gerty. I wish I could say I was going to miss you, buddy, but to be honest, I can't wait to get away from here.
GERTY: I understand, Sam. I hope life is everything you remember it to be.
SAM 2: Thanks. Are you sure you're going to be ok?
GERTY: Of course. The new Sam and I will be back to our programming as soon as I have finished rebooting.
SAM 2: Gerty, I'm not programmed.
SAM 2: Fuck!
SAM 3: Where am I?
GERTY: Sam, you're in the Infirmary. You had an accident.
GERTY (CONT'D): Do you remember what happened?
SAM 3: No, Gerty. (a beat) I don't remember a thing.
TESS: What took you so long?
