SHOOTING DRAFT: THE ISLAND OF MANHATTAN - STOCK FADE IN: A very high airplane view of the entire island. Over this, a Voice, authoritative, impressive.
VOICE: In any discussion of contemporary America and how its people live, we must inevitably start with Manhattan New York City, U.S.A!
VOICE: Manhattan glistening, modern giant of concrete and steel reaching to the heavens and holding in its arms seven millions!
VOICE: Seven millions happy beneficiaries of the advantages and comforts this gracious metropolis has to offer.
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Its fine broad streets and boulevards facilitate the New Yorker's carefree, orderly existence.
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Its fine broad streets and boulevards facilitate the New Yorker's carefree, orderly existence.
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Kindly, courteous public servants ever on hand to offer a word of friendly advice.
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Kindly, courteous public servants ever on hand to offer a word of friendly advice.
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) A transportation system second to none in speed and comfort!
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) A transportation system second to none in speed and comfort!
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Modern recreational facilities for its children!
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Modern recreational facilities for its children!
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) For its adults, the peace and privacy of a day in the sun!
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) For its adults, the peace and privacy of a day in the sun!
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) It's delightful changes in climate!
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) It's delightful changes in climate!
DISSOLVE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Its great institutions of learning! Open to all. Free of charge.
VOICE: ( OVER DISSOLVE ) Its great institutions of learning! Open to all. Free of charge.
BILL: I suppose you're wondering what all this has to do with Mr. Blandings and his Dream House? Well, I'll tell you. Jim Blandings is part of the fabric of this town. Born and raised right here, he's as typical a New Yorker as anyone you'll ever meet. At least he was. And if you want to know the real story, I guess I'm your boy. Cole's my name, Bill Cole. I'm Jim's lawyer and quote, best friend, unquote. Jim's one of those bright young men from Yale. Advertising business, lovely wife, two fine kids, makes almost fifteen thousand a year. Want to know why? Just look up there.
A BILLBOARD: A billboard against a white background is a large ham. In large letters across the ham is printed:
WHAM!: ( A WHALE OF A HAM )
BILL'S VOICE: "When you've got the whim, say 'Wham!'". Jim Blandings wrote that slogan. Seven magic words that shine like a beacon light for the American "When you've got the whim, say 'Wham!'" Jim Blandings' contribution to the American Scene.
BILL'S VOICE: For fourteen years Jim and Muriel had been living in their apartment over on East Seventy-fourth Street. It was just another of those wonderful crisp September mornings and the Blandings were still asleep. Just like millions of other people in good old Manhattan New York City
BETSY'S VOICE: Okay, dad.
JIM: Jim continues down the hall, stops at the closed door of the children's room, knocks. No sound. He opens the door and INT. CHILDREN'S BEDROOM A small room, crowded and cluttered up with the accoutrements of adolescence. Joan, an eleven-year-old is asleep in one of the twin beds. Jim automatically pulls the covers clear off Joan's bed. She awakens, cocks an eye at him.
JOAN: Okay, dad.
JIM: As she sleepily stretches and prepares to rise, Jim exits into the hall.
GUSSIE: 'Morning, Mr. Blandings!
JIM: ( a feeble attempt at a smile )
JIM: Muriel awakens, sniffs the fresh coffee, smiles, sits up, takes the cup.
MURIEL: Muriel awakens, sniffs the fresh coffee, smiles, sits up, takes the cup.
JIM: Muriel awakens, sniffs the fresh coffee, smiles, sits up, takes the cup.
MURIEL: Thank you, dear.
MURIEL: Looking for something, dear?
JIM: ( briefly ) My socks.
MURIEL: Why don't you look in your sock That's where I found my underwear.
JIM: ( with restraint ) That's where I found my underwear.
MURIEL: ( brightly ) Well, try your underwear drawer.
JIM: I'm in my underwear drawer.
MURIEL: ( sipping coffee ) Well, they must be somewhere. ( attempt at morning cheeriness ) Socks just don't get up and walk away by themselves.
JIM: ( strained patience ) Muriel, I thought the top two-and-a- half drawers were to be mine! I wish you'd tell Gussie
MURIEL: The closet! That's where they are. We put them in the closet.
JIM: Socks? In the closet?
MURIEL: Well, there didn't seem to be any room in the drawers.
JIM: And there's so much of it in the .so Gussie and I decided that from now on we'll keep them in a basket on the shelf.
MURIEL: .so Gussie and I decided that from now on we'll keep them in a basket on the shelf.
JIM: Well, thanks a lot!
MURIEL: Jim, I do wish you'd make an effort to be a little less clumsy.
JIM: ( barely containing himself ) I'll try, dear.
JOAN: ( sharply ) Father, just one morning I wish you'd ( to her back as she walks away ) 'Morning, dear.
JIM: ( to her back as she walks away ) 'Morning, dear.
DISSOLVE: Jim - He stands in front of the washstand lathering his face. Over scene we hear Muriel's voice from the shower. She is singing a lusty chorus of "Home On The Range." Jim picks up his razor and turns to the mirror. He reacts with annoyance, as he discovers it is covered with steam. With weary resignation he takes a towel and starts to rub off the mirror. As he clears one section another clouds up. By the time he gets it all reasonably clear he finds that his lather needs freshening. He grimly relathers his face only to find that the mirror is again clouded up. As he turns with exasperation toward the shower we see Muriel turn off the water, reach for a towel, start to dry herself. The mirror cleared off, Jim relathers, starts to shave. During this, Muriel, having dried herself and donned her robe, comes into scene.
JIM: Jim - He stands in front of the washstand lathering his face. Over scene we hear Muriel's voice from the shower. She is singing a lusty chorus of "Home On The Range." Jim picks up his razor and turns to the mirror. He reacts with annoyance, as he discovers it is covered with steam. With weary resignation he takes a towel and starts to rub off the mirror. As he clears one section another clouds up. By the time he gets it all reasonably clear he finds that his lather needs freshening. He grimly relathers his face only to find that the mirror is again clouded up. As he turns with exasperation toward the shower we see Muriel turn off the water, reach for a towel, start to dry herself. The mirror cleared off, Jim relathers, starts to shave. During this, Muriel, having dried herself and donned her robe, comes into scene.
MURIEL: ( reaching for toothbrush )
JIM: Muriel nods, steps back, starts to brush her teeth. They both hum "Home On The Range". Her mouth full, Muriel taps Jim on the shoulder. Without stopping his shaving, Jim moves to one side as Muriel rinses her mouth. She examines her face in the mirror.
JIM: ( impatiently ) If you don't mind, dear.
MURIEL: ( as she steps in front of him )
MURIEL: Moment, dear.
JIM: Take your time. I can spare the blood.
MURIEL: ( looks up ) Oh. cut yourself?
JIM: I cut myself every morning. I kind of look forward to it.
MURIEL: Why don't you get an electric razor?
JIM: ( trying to shave ) Don't like them. No close shave.
MURIEL: Ridiculous! Bill Cole's been using one for years.
JIM: He doesn't have my beard!
MURIEL: That's silly. Bill's beard is just as tough and coarse and
JIM: ( irritably ) I'm not interested in discussing the grain and texture of Bill Cole's hair follicles before I've had my orange juice.
MURIEL: You don't have to carry on so. I only said, why don't you get an electric razor?
JIM: Because I prefer the cool, clean sweep of the tempered steel as it glides smoothly
MURIEL: Stop writing advertising copy! Hurry up, dear, you'll be late for
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY Narrow and small. The four Blandings are at breakfast, Jim and Muriel each reading his section of the morning paper, Betsy pasting a clipping in her notebook, Joan engrossed in a magazine of popular science. As we come in, Gussie, taking off the orange juice, is squeezing by Jim who accordingly and automatically ducks his head as she passes. Jim uncomfortably turns the newspaper to another page, folds it, reacts with pained but controlled exasperation.
JIM: .Who did this?
BETSY: ( very matter-of-factly ) I did.
JIM: I have repeatedly told you don't cut up the morning paper until I've had a chance to look at I'm sorry, father. It's necessary
BETSY: I'm sorry, father. It's necessary
JIM: ( with some sarcasm ) I suppose this is another of Miss Stellwagon's so-called Progressive ( using salt and handing it to Jim ) Now dear, there just isn't any point in sending your children to an expensive school if you're going to undermine the teacher's authority in your own dining room.
MURIEL: ( using salt and handing it to Jim ) Now dear, there just isn't any point in sending your children to an expensive school if you're going to undermine the teacher's authority in your own dining room.
JIM: I'm not undermining anything. I happen to be in the advertising business and keeping abreast of the times is important to me.
MURIEL: And so is your children's education.
JIM: That's not the point.
MURIEL: It certainly is.
JIM: It certainly is not!
JOAN: ( without looking up from her magazine ) Bicker, bicker, bicker.
JIM: You eat your cornflakes!
MURIEL: ( handing Joan toast ) Joan, every time your father and I have a lively discussion we aren't necessarily bickering. ( to Betsy; solicitously ) What is it, dear, another English ( taking toast from Joan ) Miss Stellwagon has assigned each of us to take a want ad and write a human interest theme about it. ( to Jim; passing toast to him ) I found one typical of the disintegration of our present society.
BETSY: ( taking toast from Joan ) Miss Stellwagon has assigned each of us to take a want ad and write a human interest theme about it. ( to Jim; passing toast to him ) I found one typical of the disintegration of our present society.
JIM: ( taking toast, not looking up from his paper ) I wasn't aware of the fact that our society was disintegrating.
BETSY: I didn't expect you to be, father. Miss Stellwagon says that middle- class people like us are all too prone to overlook the pressures and tensions which befall the less fortunate members of our community.
JIM: ( with great restraint ) Muriel, I know it's asking a lot, but just one morning I would like to sit down and have breakfast without social significance!
MURIEL: Jim, you really might take a little more interest in your children's You can't squeeze blood from a turnip.
JOAN: ( without looking up ) You can't squeeze blood from a turnip.
JIM: All right. All right. I'll listen.
BETSY: ( picking up her scrapbook ) It's just twenty-four words. But in simple eloquence it mirrors a minor tragedy of our times.
JIM: ( quietly ) ( reading ) "Forced to sell. Farm dwelling, oak grove, apple orchard, trout stream, hay fields, four barns, seclusion, superb view, original beams, paved highway, acreage. ( with emotion ) Will sacrifice." Go on.
BETSY: ( reading ) "Forced to sell. Farm dwelling, oak grove, apple orchard, trout stream, hay fields, four barns, seclusion, superb view, original beams, paved highway, acreage. ( with emotion ) Will sacrifice." Go on.
JIM: Go on.
BETSY: ( simply ) That's all.
JIM: That's all?!
BETSY: You don't see it, do you, father?
JIM: No. Fellow wants to sell a house so he puts an ad in the paper. What did you expect him to do, take it to the United Nations!
MURIEL: There must be more to it than that. Isn't there, dear?
BETSY: Certainly, mother. What some people don't see is the whole sordid picture. A poor, honest farmer, pushed to the wall by hardship, soil erosion, mortgages, everybody gobbling, gobbling, gobbling, until finally, in desperation, he is "forced to sell," and stoops to the crass commercialism of newspaper Oh, indeed. crass commercialism. Miss Stellwagon says advertising is a basically parasitic profession.
JIM: ( muttering ) Oh, indeed. crass commercialism. ( nose in her magazine ) Miss Stellwagon says advertising is a basically parasitic profession.
JOAN: ( nose in her magazine ) Miss Stellwagon says advertising is a basically parasitic profession.
JIM: ( with extreme control ) Oh, she does?
JOAN: Miss Stellwagon says that advertising makes people who can't afford it buy things they don't want with money they haven't got.
JIM: ( elaborate sarcasm ) Perhaps your Miss Stellwagon is right. Perhaps I ought to get out of this "basically parasitic profession," which at the moment is paying for her very fancy tuition, those extra French lessons, her progressive summer camp and for that matter, the very braces on your teeth!
MURIEL: I wish you wouldn't discuss money in front of the children.
JIM: Why not, they spend enough of it!
JOAN: Bicker, bicker, bicker.
GUSSIE: Hello. Who? Miss Blandings, there's a Mr. Funkhauser wants to see you.
MURIEL: ( remembers ) Oh, Mr. Funkhauser!
GUSSIE: That's what he says.
MURIEL: Uh better ask him to come up.
GUSSIE: ( into phone ) Says to come up. ( tentatively ) Oh uh darling, Mr. Funkhauser's ( looking up ) You remember, Bunny Funkhauser, that clever young interior decorator we met at the Collins' cocktail party?
MURIEL: ( tentatively ) Oh uh darling, Mr. Funkhauser's ( looking up ) You remember, Bunny Funkhauser, that clever young interior decorator we met at the Collins' cocktail party?
JIM: ( looking up ) You remember, Bunny Funkhauser, that clever young interior decorator we met at the Collins' cocktail party?
MURIEL: You remember, Bunny Funkhauser, that clever young interior decorator we met at the Collins' cocktail party?
JIM: ( distastefully ) What's he doing here?
MURIEL: ( nervously ) Well, I imagine he's brought the uh estimates.
JIM: ( blankly ) ( rapidly; to conceal a feeling of guilt ) Darling, you know how long we've said we've got to do something about this apartment, and, well, he called last week, and I had him come over, and he's got some simply wonderful ( quietly ) There couldn't be two Bunny Funkhausers, could there?
MURIEL: ( rapidly; to conceal a feeling of guilt ) Darling, you know how long we've said we've got to do something about this apartment, and, well, he called last week, and I had him come over, and he's got some simply wonderful ( quietly ) There couldn't be two Bunny Funkhausers, could there?
JIM: ( quietly ) There couldn't be two Bunny Funkhausers, could there?
MURIEL: Why, no, dear.
JIM: Then this is the same clever young man who's responsible for that zebra- striped monstrosity in the Collins' living room?
MURIEL: That couch is terribly functional.
JIM: Phil Collins told me what he paid for all that function! If you think I'm going to
MURIEL: Darling, please! Children, you'll be late to school. Run along and
JOAN: Miss Stellwagon says that functionalism in modern furniture
MURIEL: Never mind, dear.
FUNKHAUSER: Good morning.
THE GIRLS: ( with a sharp appraising look ) Good morning, Mr. Funkhauser. You remember Mr. Blandings?
MURIEL: Good morning, Mr. Funkhauser. You remember Mr. Blandings?
FUNKHAUSER: But of course. You'll have to pardon my bursting in at this dreary hour practically the middle of the but I did so want to catch you in. I've been at it hammer and tongs all week and I'm just a mess but then Muriel and I thought we ought to talk it over with you before we take the plunge.
FUNKHAUSER: You'll have to pardon my bursting in at this dreary hour practically the middle of the but I did so want to catch you in. I've been at it hammer and tongs all week and I'm just a mess but then Muriel and I thought we ought to talk it over with you before we take the plunge.
FUNKHAUSER: ( smoothing out folds on the chintz ) After all, it's your home, too, and it should reflect you. You know, Man's Castle, all that sort of thing.
JIM: ( ominously ) ( quickly ) Jim, just wait till you hear. He's got some wonderful ideas for the Oh, that's out! All out! Changed the whole thing! I just couldn't live with it! I said to myself, "Bunny, what are the Blandings? How shall we do them?" And the answer was perfectly obvious. Very American, very grass roots, very blueberry pie that sort of thing.
MURIEL: ( quickly ) Jim, just wait till you hear. He's got some wonderful ideas for the Oh, that's out! All out! Changed the whole thing! I just couldn't live with it! I said to myself, "Bunny, what are the Blandings? How shall we do them?" And the answer was perfectly obvious. Very American, very grass roots, very blueberry pie that sort of thing.
FUNKHAUSER: Oh, that's out! All out! Changed the whole thing! I just couldn't live with it! I said to myself, "Bunny, what are the Blandings? How shall we do them?" And the answer was perfectly obvious. Very American, very grass roots, very blueberry pie that sort of thing.
JIM: ( dark look at Muriel )
FUNKHAUSER: Now first, let's dig into this living room of yours, it's really a dreary.
MURIEL: ( quickly; to Jim ) We want this room to be very gay, dear. Something in bright reds, yellows and greens.
JIM: ( appalled ) Red, yellow and green?!
FUNKHAUSER: Oh, come, Mr. Blandings, let's not run away from color.
JIM: Not running away just backing off a little.
FUNKHAUSER: Uh yes. Now as I see our room, it's definitely Colonial. You know, cobbler's bench, breakfront, pie cooler, student lamp, hooked rug. But everything in good taste. It must not jump out at you and scream: "Look see how antique I am!"
JIM: Heaven forbid.
FUNKHAUSER: Of course, these things take imagination. You've simply got to be able to visualize.
JIM: ( politely, removing chintz ) If you'll forgive me, Mr. Funkhauser, what I'd like to visualize at this dreary hour is how much is this all going to cost?
FUNKHAUSER: Well, really, I hesitate to say. After all by the time this wall is out we may find
JIM: ( reacting ) This wall is what?
FUNKHAUSER: Out. Source of light is from the east. Obviously if our room is to have any function at all
JIM: You're going to tear out the wall?!
MURIEL: Dear, it's a wonderful notion.
FUNKHAUSER: Visualize three feet of leaded panes, the rest
JIM: Can you give me a figure?
FUNKHAUSER: Well! Costs aren't what they used to be, you know, and
JIM: Just a figure.
FUNKHAUSER: Materials are impossible, labor has just run wild
JIM: Just an overall figure.
FUNKHAUSER: Well!. I shouldn't like to be tied down. But I suppose if you must have a figure, I'd say mm somewhere in the neighborhood of Mm. Seven.
JIM: Mm. Seven.
FUNKHAUSER: ( nodding ) That would be seven. thousand?
JIM: That would be seven. thousand?
FUNKHAUSER: Jim looks at Muriel, considers.
JIM: ( soberly ) We-ll. That seems fair. ( gathering up materials ) After all, we're not running away from color ( picks up wallpaper ) and we are tearing out walls ( picks up sketches ) Mr. Funkhauser, do you have a card?
MURIEL: Jim, we haven't even discussed the rest of the house.
JIM: We will, dear.
FUNKHAUSER: ( huffy ) Well, really, I
JIM: ( deftly steering him toward the door ) We'll talk it all out and then we'll get in touch with Bunny.
FUNKHAUSER: Well, really, I mean, I was under the impression we'd come to some decision today.
JIM: I'm sure we will.
FUNKHAUSER: So nice of you to come. Good day.
JIM: So nice of you to come. Good day.
MURIEL: ( apprehensively ) Now darling, you you just don't go to a man like Funkhauser and ask how much it's going to cost before you even know what he's going to do!
JIM: No, that would be too logical! Seven thousand dollars! Blueberry pie! I wouldn't put seventy-five cents into this broken-down rat trap!
MURIEL: ( sentimentally ) It's our home, Jim. Betsy was practically born in this apartment.
JIM: That does not make it a national Seven thousand dollars and not one word about closets.
MURIEL: Closets! You wouldn't even let him get to the bathroom!
JIM: I haven't got that kind of money!
MURIEL: The way you talk, Jim Blandings, you'd think I was some kind of congenital idiot!
JIM: Sometimes I'm beginning to wonder!
MURIEL: ( furious ) You can just get out of here!
JIM: That's not a bad idea!
DISSOLVE: EXT. RADIO CITY - ESTABLISHING SHOT - ( STOCK ) INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE OF JIM'S OFFICE - DAY Exiting from the elevator, Jim enters a door marked:
DISSOLVE: INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE OF JIM'S OFFICE - DAY Exiting from the elevator, Jim enters a door marked:
ADVERTISING: INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY On the wall are various framed copies of Jim's handiwork. Most prominent are advertisements for a meat product called "Wham!" "A Whale of a Ham!" There is ample evidence of the fact that Jim's most successful slogan is: "When you've got the Whim - say 'Wham!'" Jim enters, goes to his desk, sits down, still emotionally upset. He glances at a photograph of Muriel, looks guiltily away, then back.
DISSOLVE: INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY On the wall are various framed copies of Jim's handiwork. Most prominent are advertisements for a meat product called "Wham!" "A Whale of a Ham!" There is ample evidence of the fact that Jim's most successful slogan is: "When you've got the Whim - say 'Wham!'" Jim enters, goes to his desk, sits down, still emotionally upset. He glances at a photograph of Muriel, looks guiltily away, then back.
JIM: ( to photograph )
MARY: Good morning, Mr. Blandings.
JIM: ( briefly ) You wanted to see the color copy from this month's House and Stream.
MARY: You wanted to see the color copy from this month's House and Stream.
THE COUNTRY: INSERT THE BACK COVER - A community and extolling life in the country, sponsored by a group of realtors, local chamber of commerce etc. Over a pastoral scene of lovely little houses checkering a rolling landscape are the words:
MARY'S VOICE: Will that be all?
JIM: ( looking up; blankly ) Will that be all?
MARY: Will that be all?
BETSY'S VOICE: "Forced to sell. Farm dwelling, oak grove, apple orchard, trout stream, hay fields, four barns, original beams "
DISSOLVE: INT. JIM'S CAR - DAY - ( PROCESS ) It is a convertible, the top down. Jim is driving through
BILL'S VOICE: Well, that's the way it all started. The ad was enough to convince Jim
DISSOLVE: INT. THE CAR - DAY - ( PROCESS ) Jim and Muriel - They are leaving Manhattan, entering the Merritt Parkway. Muriel, wearing an orchid corsage, looks curiously at Jim. His answering gesture says, "Just wait and see." Over this:
BILL'S VOICE: But Muriel was a little tougher. I guess the corsage did it.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE CAR - DAY Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - They are driving through a beautiful Connecticut countryside. Mr. Smith, a local real estate dealer, is of that shrewd Yankee breed which specializes in the understatement, underselling school of Smith looks speculatively at the Blandings.
BILL'S VOICE: There they are, two little fish from New York out in the deep deep waters of Connecticut real estate. That's Smith, the real estate salesman. Mighty shrewd cookie in a quiet sort of way. Never thought he'd get a bite this quick.
BILL'S VOICE: Now he's sizing up the catch. "Mm. Let's see. Convertible orchids must be pretty well fixed. Wonder if they're lookers or buyers?"
BILL'S VOICE: They're buyers. Yes, sir, Smith, looks like you're finally going to unload the old Hackett place. Now first thing is get 'em a little anxious.
BILL'S VOICE: Th-a-a-t's right!
DISSOLVE: INT. THE CAR - DAY Jim, Muriel, Mr. Smith - They pass another house. Jim and Muriel appraise it with interest, look at Smith.
BILL'S VOICE: Uh-uh, not yet.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE CAR - DAY Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - Another house.
BILL'S VOICE: Take it easy, Smith, give 'em a little more line.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE CAR - DAY Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - The car pulls to a stop.
BILL'S VOICE: Now we're ready to gaff 'em.
SMITH: ( proudly ) Well, folks, there she is the old Hackett Place.
SMITH'S VOICE: Fifty mighty pretty little acres.
MURIEL: ( involuntarily ) It's simply charming!
MURIEL: That is, for an old house.
JIM: ( casually ) Of course, you understand, Mr. Smith, we're just window shopping, so to speak. Nothing really definite in Perfectly all right.
SMITH: Perfectly all right.
JIM: ( studies house; with assumed indifference ) Mm. Not a bad-looking place, but it's certainly a lot older than anything we had in mind.
SMITH: She's no spring chicken but that's just what makes her such a buy.
SMITH: This isn't just old timber, or a virgin stand oak grove other side of the trout stream, or a couple of fruit orchards. You're buying a piece of American history.
JIM: ( interested in spite of himself ) You don't say! How's that?
SMITH: First year she was built, General Gates stopped right here to water his horses.
JIM: ( impressed ) Oh! Old General Gates Civil War.
SMITH: Revolutionary War.
JIM: Oh. Oh, that General Gates. Hear that, honey, General Gates!
MURIEL: ( with concern ) Wouldn't that make the house over a hundred years old?
SMITH: ( proudly ) Hundred and seventy come next April.
SMITH: Now I'm not trying to sell you anything all I'm saying is that one of these days someone with a little vision and imagination's goin' to come along, and just steal this and I mean steal it.
SMITH: Mr. Blandings, I know you can look at that house and just about picture what a couple of coats of paint and a little pointing up here and there can do to it.
JIM: The CAMERA MOVES TO a HEAD CLOSEUP of Jim as he begins to WHAT HE SEES WHAT HE SEES - The Old Hackett Place suddenly DISSOLVES into the New Blandings' Place Jim's version. It is a lovely country house. Massive. Masculine. Jim, in jodhpurs, tweed coat, pipe and accompanied by two large Irish Setters, is proudly surveying his property. He nonchalantly holds a sleek, beautiful shotgun in the most precisely correct position.
JIM'S VOICE: Hm. Wonder what he meant by "steal?"
SMITH: And I guess I don't have to tell you, Mrs. Blandings, what a woman's touch could do to a place like this.
MURIEL: CAMERA MOVES to a HEAD CLOSEUP of Muriel as she starts to WHAT SHE SEES - THE OLD HACKETT PLACE WHAT SHE SEES - The Old Hackett Place DISSOLVES into a dainty, feminine cottage with criss-cross curtains at the window and a lovely little white rail fence enclosing "her garden." Muriel, in delightful gingham, is in the garden, admiring her latest triumph - the largest rose ever grown in Lansdale CLOSE SHOT - MURIEL'S FACE. CLOSE SHOT - Muriel's face. Her face is soft. Her lips don't move but we hear:
MURIEL'S VOICE: It is a nice old house. It just needs someone to love it, that's all.
THREE SHOT: THREE SHOT CAMERA MOVES to a HEAD CLOSEUP of Smith as he, too, begins to visualize.
THREE SHOT: Yes, sir, you've certainly got to
SMITH: Yes, sir, you've certainly got to
SMITH: ( brightly ) Shall we go up and take a look at ( a little too casual ) Well I suppose as long as we're ( same ) I guess it doesn't hurt to take a
MURIEL: ( a little too casual ) Well I suppose as long as we're ( same ) I guess it doesn't hurt to take a
JIM: ( same ) I guess it doesn't hurt to take a
MURIEL: ( sotto ) It does have possibilities. Do you think we can get it?
JIM: ( sotto ) Like taking candy from a baby.
MURIEL: ( same ) Now don't lose your head.
JIM: ( same ) Shh. Just keep quiet and let me handle
JIM: Tell me, Smith, what kind of a price is the owner asking for this old
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY Jim and Muriel precede Smith as they exit from the house. As Jim and Muriel carry on a sotto voce conversation, Smith looks off with some concern in the direction of the road.
MURIEL: It's wonderful, Jim! That master bedroom with those two closets!
JIM: Funkhauser could do wonders with Funkhauser will have nothing to do with this house! Shh!
MURIEL: Funkhauser could do wonders with Funkhauser will have nothing to do with this house! Shh!
JIM: ( firmly ) Funkhauser will have nothing to do with this house! Shh!
HACKETT: ( calling ) Hi, George!
SMITH: Hi, Eph! What do you know, it's Eph Hackett, owner of the place!
JIM: ( pleased ) Well, you don't say.
SMITH: Eph, this is Mr. and Mrs. Blandings from New York City.
HACKETT: THE BLANDINGS
THE BLANDINGS: How do you do?
MURIEL: You certainly have a lovely place here, Mr. Hackett.
HACKETT: ( briefly ) ( pleasantly ) Mr. Hackett, we've just been talking to Smith here about uh taking the old place off your hands.
JIM: ( pleasantly ) Mr. Hackett, we've just been talking to Smith here about uh taking the old place off your hands.
HACKETT: ( firmly ) Ain't for sale!
SMITH: ( smoothly ) Why don't you folks just go out in back and take a look at the orchard?
HACKETT: How'm I doin', George?
SMITH: Nice timin', Eph. Think we got something here.
HACKETT: They the same people you showed it to in nineteen-thirty-eight?
SMITH: They were lookers this is the real thing.
HACKETT: If they got five thousand dollars on 'em. don't let 'em get away.
SMITH: They already offered ten.
HACKETT: ( mildly ) Y'don't say. What's my asking price?
SMITH: A mite stiff.
HACKETT: A mite stiff.
SMITH: I've got 'em measured. They're gonna take the place for eleven thousand.
HACKETT: Make it eleven thousand five hundred Odd kind of figure.
SMITH: Odd kind of figure.
HACKETT: Might as well take the commission out of them instead of me.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY Muriel and the two children are having breakfast. Jim enters in high spirits. During this scene we repeat the business of passing, etc. used in the previous breakfast scene.
JIM: ( singing gaily to "Home On The Range" ) "Home, home in Connecticut With a closet to hang up your petticut."
MURIEL: ( as he seats himself ) ( going on, as he places his napkin in his lap ) "No hustle or fuss No Fifth Avenue bus "
JIM: ( going on, as he places his napkin in his lap ) "No hustle or fuss No Fifth Avenue bus "
MURIEL: Uh Jim?
JIM: I was just wondering, dear. Ten thousand dollars is such an awful lot to offer That is, for two people who don't know anything at all about real estate, or anything. I mean, don't you think perhaps we should have asked someone's professional advice?
MURIEL: I was just wondering, dear. Ten thousand dollars is such an awful lot to offer That is, for two people who don't know anything at all about real estate, or anything. I mean, don't you think perhaps we should have asked someone's professional advice?
MURIEL: That is, for two people who don't know anything at all about real estate, or anything. I mean, don't you think perhaps we should have asked someone's professional advice?
JIM: Like. say. a lawyer?
MURIEL: Well, Bill knows about these things Muriel, for once in my life I'm going to make one small decision, on my own, without the legalistic machinations of Mr. Bill Cole.
JIM: Muriel, for once in my life I'm going to make one small decision, on my own, without the legalistic machinations of Mr. Bill Cole.
MURIEL: It seems very peculiar that when your very best friend happens to be one of the very cleverest young lawyers in New York City
JIM: Muriel, I don't want to hear another word about Bill Cole! Well, did your mother tell you about the house?
BETSY: Miss Stellwagon says the current craze for modernizing old farmhouses is a form of totem worship.
JIM: Miss Stellwagon says the current craze for modernizing old farmhouses is a form of totem worship.
JOAN: Miss Stellwagon says the current craze for modernizing old farmhouses is a form of totem worship.
JIM: ( with great restraint ) Did it ever occur to you two that there may be some remote, intangible subjects upon which your Miss Irma Stellwagon is not the final authority?
JOAN: Why don't we buy a Solaxion house?
JIM: .You know it's just barely conceivable What kind of a house?
JOAN: Solaxion. It's built on a mast like a tent and it revolves with the sun.
JIM: Oh, it. revolves. with the sun?
JOAN: That's right.
JIM: Who lives next door Buck Rogers?!
JOAN: It's the only practical way to live. When a new model comes out you trade the old one in like a used car.
JIM: ( plaintively ) Children, you haven't even seen this house yet.
MURIEL: Children, you haven't even seen this house yet.
BETSY: Personally, I'd like a Crane Mobile home. It comes all folded up and all you do is plug it in for electricity and water and
JIM: Now just a minute! What kind of children are these? Do you want to spend the rest of your lives in chromium tents and portable merry-go-rounds? This house was built before our country became a nation. It has dignity. It's
GUSSIE: ( handing it to Jim ) Special delivery, Mr. Blandings.
JIM: ( with suppressed; excitement ) From Smith!
JIM: ( reading ) "I have conveyed your offer of ten thousand dollars to Mr. Hackett and am sorry to say he is not interested. However, I feel."
MURIEL: ( reading ) "I have conveyed your offer of ten thousand dollars to Mr. Hackett and am sorry to say he is not interested. However, I feel."
JIM: ( reading ) "I have conveyed your offer of ten thousand dollars to Mr. Hackett and am sorry to say he is not interested. However, I feel."
MURIEL: Oh, dear. Maybe we should have gone a few dollars higher.
JIM: ( stoutly ) He's bluffing. Simple as that.
JOAN: For ten thousand dollars we could get a Rockford Trailer and a Zamboni Power Unit. It's kitchen, bathroom and air conditioning all rolled up
JIM: ( firmly ) Muriel, I'll let him push me to ten thousand, two hundred, but not a penny more!
DISSOLVE: JIM'S COST CHART INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - Rising diagonally and bisecting the chart is a line graduated in scale starting at $5000 and running up to around $17,000. Resting on the line at exactly $10,000 is a miniature of the old house. Fluttering across the scene from left to right is a letter from Smith on the stationery of the Lansdale Realty Co. As we see the letter and hear the voice of Smith, miniature figures of Smith and Hackett appear at the lower side of the house. Their shoulders start pushing the house up the graduated scale. Over this:
SMITH'S VOICE: "Dear Mr. Blandings: While your offer of ten thousand two hundred is still not acceptable to Ephemus Hackett
JIM'S VOICE: "Dear Mr. Smith: You may inform Mr. Hackett that the very highest I could possibly go "
SMITH'S VOICE: "Dear Friend Blandings "
JIM'S VOICE: "My dear Friend Smith "
SMITH'S VOICE: "Dear Blandings !"
JIM'S VOICE: "Dear Smith - !"
DISSOLVE: Door - on it is printed:
DOOR: Door - on it is printed:
MR. COLE: INT. BILL COLE'S OFFICE - DAY A successful lawyer's office, the walls crowded with leather- bound books. Jim and Muriel are seated facing the large desk behind which sits Bill Cole. Bill finishes reading a series of papers, the sum total of correspondence between Jim and Mr. Smith. He sets down the papers, leans back thoughtfully. Jim and Muriel look at him with nervous but eager
PRIVATE: INT. BILL COLE'S OFFICE - DAY A successful lawyer's office, the walls crowded with leather- bound books. Jim and Muriel are seated facing the large desk behind which sits Bill Cole. Bill finishes reading a series of papers, the sum total of correspondence between Jim and Mr. Smith. He sets down the papers, leans back thoughtfully. Jim and Muriel look at him with nervous but eager
DISSOLVE: INT. BILL COLE'S OFFICE - DAY A successful lawyer's office, the walls crowded with leather- bound books. Jim and Muriel are seated facing the large desk behind which sits Bill Cole. Bill finishes reading a series of papers, the sum total of correspondence between Jim and Mr. Smith. He sets down the papers, leans back thoughtfully. Jim and Muriel look at him with nervous but eager
JIM: ( not too sure ) What do you think, Bill? Steal, huh?
BILL: ( drily ) It certainly is.
BILL: Perhaps "steal" is an understatement "swindle" might be a little more Well, it wasn't much, Bill. I just saw a good thing and I What do you mean?
JIM: ( with pride ) Well, it wasn't much, Bill. I just saw a good thing and I ( take ) What do you mean?
BILL: Every time you get a little tight you weep on my shoulder about the advertising business and how it forces a sensitive soul like yourself to make a living by bamboozling the American public. I would say that a small part of this victimized group has now redressed the balance.
JIM: What are you talking about?
BILL: You! You've been taken to the cleaners and you don't even know your pants are off!
MURIEL: Dear, I told you. I said we should call Bill
JIM: Never mind, Muriel! All right, just what's wrong with this deal?
BILL: First time around you offered ten thousand dollars for fifty acres, What of it?
JIM: What of it?
BILL: That's two hundred dollars an acre. I know that part of Connecticut and one hundred dollars an acre is standard top-gouge price to city slickers. When the natives sell to each other it's around forty or less.
MURIEL: Forty dollars an acre!
JIM: The man's entitled to a fair profit.
BILL: Not two hundred and eighty-four And besides, you're not getting fifty acres, you're only getting thirty- five, more or less.
JIM: Where does it say that?
BILL: ( picks up letter ) I refer to a rather obscure post- script on the back of the second letter from Friend Smith.
MURIEL: ( reading ) "Incidentally, Mr. Hackett has been a little over-optimistic about the acreage. It will probably survey somewhere in the neighborhood of thirty-five acres, more or less, but I feel sure."
JIM: ( on the defensive ) All right, so it's thirty-five! What's the difference? Do you know how many tennis courts you can get on thirty- five acres?
BILL: You're not spending eleven thousand five hundred dollars for tennis That's not the point!
JIM: That's not the point!
BILL: ( very businesslike ) That's precisely the point. We're going to write this Hackett a strong letter and tell him he can either kick in with those fifteen acres, reduce the price, or find another ( rising emotion ) We'll do no such thing! I'm not going to queer this deal over fifteen broken- down acres!
JIM: ( rising emotion ) We'll do no such thing! I'm not going to queer this deal over fifteen broken- down acres!
MURIEL: ( to Bill ) We were just going window shopping and so far it's cost us eleven thousand five hundred dollars and they even made us pay the commission!
JIM: You don't understand business.
BILL: You mean extortion.
MURIEL: ( thoughtfully ) I wonder if we could get another two year lease on the apartment?
JIM: ( heatedly ) Now wait a minute! You can't measure everything on a slide rule. This house has certain intangibles.
BILL: Like what, for instance?
JIM: Like antique value, for instance! It just so happens that General Gates stopped right there, at that very house, to water his horses.
BILL: I don't care if General Grant dropped in for a scotch and soda you're still getting rocked!
JIM: That was a different war!
MURIEL: I think Bill's absolutely right.
JIM: ( struggling to contain himself; quietly ) Let me explain something. To both of you. For fifteen years I've been cooped up in a four room cracker box! Just getting shaved in the morning entitles a man to the Congressional Medal for bravery.
BILL: That doesn't make this a good buy.
JIM: Bill Muriel and I have found what I am not ashamed to call our Dream House. It's like a fine painting. You buy it with your heart, not your head. You don't ask, how much was the canvas, how much was the paint? You look at it and you say, "It's beautiful. I want it," and if it costs a few pennies more you pay it and gladly because you love it and you can't measure the things you love in dollars and cents! Well that's how I feel about this place. And when I sign those papers Saturday, I can look the world in the face and say, "It's mine! My house! My home! My thirty-five acres!"
JIM: ( emotionally spent ) Well that's how I feel about this place. And when I sign those papers Saturday, I can look the world in the face and say, "It's mine! My house! My home! My thirty-five acres!"
MURIEL: ( coming over; moved, touched ) Our house. Our home. Our thirty-five
BILL: .more or less.
DISSOLVE: EXT. LANSDALE COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY Comprehensive Shot showing village green of a small, typical, quaint New England town.
DISSOLVE: INT. RECORDS ROOM LANSDALE COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY Old Judge Quarles is reading from the title deed, the proceedings almost over. Jim stands in front of the bench flanked by Muriel and Bill. Mr. Smith and Hackett are the only other people present. As the Judge drones on, Jim and Muriel exchange a smile. Jim squeezes her hand intimately.
JUDGE QUARLES: ( reading ) ".thence along said stonewall fence forming the East boundary of said Lansdale Road, N 20° 27' E, 21.84 feet to the end of said stonewall fence, thence along a wire fence, N 16° 31' W, 78.66 feet to a dead twenty- inch chestnut tree, thence westward to said stonewall fence, to a total of thirty-one and a half acres "
JIM: ( reacting ) What was that? How many acres?
BILL: ( precisely ) Thirty-one and a half.
JIM: ( to Hackett ) I was under the impression your property was thirty-five acres, Mr. It is. more or less.
HACKETT: It is. more or less.
SMITH: You see, Mr. Blandings, when you signed the purchase agreement it was subject to traced map attached. Surveyed to an even thirty-one and a half acres.
JUDGE QUARLES: Anything wrong?
BILL: It's nothing, Your Honor, just a few less tennis courts.
JUDGE QUARLES: ( with ministerial resonance ) ".to have and to hold to him, the said Grantee, his heirs and assigns to his and their own proper use and benefit forever."
JUDGE QUARLES: ( very businesslike ) Subject to a six thousand dollar mortgage held by Ephemus Whittaker
DISSOLVE: EXT. RURAL COUNTRYSIDE - DAY LONG SHOT - The Blandings' car. The Blandings and Bill Cole driving along. They approach a fork in the road which leads to a very old covered New England bridge. On the bridge is a sign which reads:
SHRUNK MILLS: 2 Mi.
DISSOLVE: EXT. A ROAD - DAY As the car approaches, the CAMERA discloses it is back at the same covered bridge. The car stops.
BILL: ( drily ) Congress ought to pass a law. When a man buys a house in Lansdale County there's a prize he gets ten percent off if he can find it.
DISSOLVE: LONG SHOT - THE CAR LONG SHOT - the car. It drives up an empty road, disappears.
DISSOLVE: EXT. A ROAD - DAY As the car approaches, the CAMERA reveals it is again back at the old covered bridge. The sign still reads: "SHRUNK MILLS - 2 Mi."
JIM: What in the world are "Shrunk Mills?"
BILL: They are probably mills that have Well, you certainly aren't much of a Look you really want to find that house of yours it's no problem.
MURIEL: Well, you certainly aren't much of a Look you really want to find that house of yours it's no problem.
BILL: ( wearily ) Look you really want to find that house of yours it's no problem.
BILL: Just pretend you're one of General Gates' horses and you're thirsty. Now where would you go for a drink of water?
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - DAY Jim, Muriel and Bill stand a little distance from the house, looking at it. A vast lilac spreads across it. The Blandings are in quiet rapture, and it is Bill who speaks first.
BILL: ( frank and open ) Well, I must admit it's a very beautiful thing.
MURIEL: ( misty ) The house and the lilac are just the same age, Bill; if the lilac can live and be so old, so can the house. It just needs someone to love it, that's all.
BILL: It's a good thing there are two of you one to love it and one to hold it up.
BILL: What'd your engineer say when he checked over the foundation and that Who needs engineers? This isn't a train, you know.
JIM: Who needs engineers? This isn't a train, you know.
BILL: I just saw it move.
JIM: This house has been standing since the second year of the Continental Congress. You take one look at it and shingles start to fall off!
BILL: ( solicitously ) Look let me do you a favor. I've got a client, crackerjack structural engineer, Joe Apollonio; he practically built the George Washington Bridge single-handed.
JIM: Thanks a lot, but we're not building a bridge.
BILL: He's the follow who advised the Government not to raise the Normandie they didn't listen to him, cost them five million dollars.
JIM: You have my word, if I were raising the Normandie, I wouldn't make a move without Apollonio. Now would you like to come inside and look around?
BILL: ( a skeptical look at the roof ) No thanks, I'll just stay out in the car and listen to "Life Can Be
MURIEL: I think you'd better contact Mr.
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - DAY Near the front entrance. After a moment, the door opens, and the Blandings and Mr. Apollonio emerge. Jim, limping, is aided and abetted by a cane. Apollonio is a stolid, New York construction man, replete with derby, blue serge suit, and cigar. A short rule sticks out of a back pocket. As they emerge, the Blandings are hopefully enthusiastic; Apollonio is thoughtfully noncommittal.
MURIEL: It has charm, hasn't it, Mr. Of course, any small changes would have to conform with the character of the countryside.
APOLLONIO: ( through his cigar ) Of course, any small changes would have to conform with the character of the countryside.
JIM: Of course, any small changes would have to conform with the character of the countryside.
APOLLONIO: ( through his cigar ) And yet still be functional. ( gazing upward; oblivious )
MURIEL: And yet still be functional.
APOLLONIO: ( gazing upward; oblivious )
JIM: Well, uh, what's your professional
APOLLONIO: Tear it down.
JIM: ( appalled ) Tear it down??!
APOLLONIO: If your chimney was shot and your sills was okay, I'd say go ahead, fix her up. If your sills was shot and your chimney was okay, again I'd say go ahead, fix her up. But your sills are shot and your chimney is
APOLLONIO: ( beckoning ) Take a look at the way she sags.
APOLLONIO: So I say don't throw good money after bad tear it down.
JIM: ( coolly ) Thanks a lot.
APOLLONIO: It's okay.
JIM: ( bitterly ) Bill Cole and his experts!
MURIEL: ( bitterly ) Darling, we'll get our own experts.
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY The Blandings have just finished surveying the house with Mr. Simpson, another expert.
BILL'S VOICE: And so they got their own experts. Mr. Simpson said
SIMPSON: Tear it down.
FAST DISSOLVE: EXT. THE OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY The Blandings have just finished examining the house with Mr. Murphy, another expert.
BILL'S VOICE: On the other hand, Mr. Murphy said
MURPHY: I think you'd better tear it down.
FAST DISSOLVE: EXT. THE OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY The Blandings and Jones, another expert.
BILL'S VOICE: And then just to be a wee bit different, Mr. Jones said
JONES: ( firmly; deep bass voiced ) Tear it down!
DISSOLVE: A SHINGLE. A shingle. It reads in neat, conservative lettering:
ARCHITECT: BILL'S VOICE
BILL'S VOICE: And that's how our friend, Mr. Simms, came into it.
DISSOLVE: INT. HENRY L. SIMMS' LIVING ROOM - DAY Jim, Muriel, Simms. The room is in quiet, good taste, a flagstone fireplace, modern steel casement windows, window seats, etc. The walls are crammed with books and photographs of Simms' handiwork. There are a couple of gold medal citations of his work conspicuously spaced around the room. Simms is a tweedy, pipe-smoking, conservative New Englander, a distinguished-looking local architect. He puffs thoughtfully on his pipe as he looks at a photograph of the old Hackett place, an exact duplicate of the shot we saw through the window frame.
SIMMS: Of course you could fix up that old house. You can fix up any structure that's still standing. The sills and floors couldn't be worse, I grant you, and I guess you'd have to jack up that west corner at least three feet to make it level. Need new chimney. New roof. Complete new Too bad you didn't buy it ten years ago. Could have fixed it up in jig time then, and it would have made some sense.
JIM: ( nervously nibbling at his nails ) Uh-huh. mm-hmmm. uh-huh.
SIMMS: Fact is, before you're through, it would be less expensive to tear the old place down and build a new one, same size.
JIM: Mm. New house. New house.
MURIEL: ( to Simms, with pleasant incredulity ) You mean. for the same money. we could build a brand new house?
SIMMS: It certainly wouldn't cost any more.
JIM: ( soberly ) Hm. New house.
JIM: ( tentatively ) Just. what sort of thing do you have in mind?
SIMMS: Well, I imagine the type of house you'd want would be something in quiet good taste, two story, frame and brick veneer construction modern, but of course fitting in with the architectural traditions of the countryside.
JIM: Well, I What do you think, Muriel?
MURIEL: I think it sounds fine.
SIMMS: Perhaps you'd like to see a basic floor plan something like this.
SIMMS: First floor. Living room, study, dining room, kitchen, service porch, maid's room upstairs three family bedrooms with two adjoining baths.
MURIEL: It's very nice, I'm sure, but uh well doesn't it seem just a little bit conventional?
JIM: Yes, Simms, if we were going to build a house we want it well, you know just a little bit different.
SIMMS: ( he's heard all this before ) Yes, of course.
JIM: Now, for instance
JIM'S VOICE: here in the study if we could just push out this wall a little and put in a built-in bar we could
MURIEL'S VOICE: Excuse me, dear
MURIEL'S VOICE: These bedrooms. They do seem rather small. And, of course we'd have to have a little dressing room and
JIM'S VOICE: And closets, Simms, lots of closets. If there's one thing this family needs, it's closets.
SIMMS' VOICE: ( as his hand reaches for the pencil ) If I might make a suggestion
MURIEL'S VOICE: ( as she draws them in ) And bathrooms, Mr. Simms. Each bedroom must have at least one bathroom.
SIMMS' VOICE: But that would be four bathrooms, Mrs. Blandings I think I'd better point out to you
JIM'S VOICE: Just a minute. Do you think we might manage a little playroom in the basement, nothing tremendous, you know, something like this
SIMMS' VOICE: ( as his hand reaches for the pencil; cautiously ) Well, it's always possible, but at the moment our fundamental problem
MURIEL'S VOICE: ( as she traces ) And I've always wanted a little sewing room upstairs ( Jim's and Simms' fingers drum impatiently ) You know, a little utility room where I can be alone, and sew, or sulk, or on a rainy afternoon.
JIM'S VOICE: ( as his hand takes pencil ) Pardon me, dear. On that playroom, Simms, not too small. You know, plenty of room for ping-pong, darts, nice big poker table.
SIMMS' VOICE: ( as his hand reaches for another pencil ) If you don't mind, I
MURIEL'S VOICE: .And off the kitchen, I'd like a little flower sink just to putter around in.
JIM'S VOICE: .And a terrace off the study, with an owning and little outdoor
DISSOLVE: THE DRAWING BOARD - THE ORIGINAL PLANS THE DRAWING BOARD - The original plans are lost in a maze of the Blandings' extensions, alterations and additions.
SIMMS: ( delicately ) We-ll. let's just see what we have here. In the first place
SIMMS' VOICE: I'm afraid you've got the upstairs about twice as big as the downstairs.
JIM'S VOICE: It's all those bathrooms.
MURIEL'S VOICE: It is not, it's all those closets.
SIMMS: By extending this breakfast room you've eliminated the possibility of any stairs going to the second floor.
JIM: Oh, you can just shove those stairs in anywhere.
SIMMS: ( patiently; almost paternally ) And, Mrs. Blandings, on that sewing room, the way you have it now, the chimney stack would come up right through the middle of the room, leaving you with something in the shape of a square doughnut. ( tactfully ) Which, of course, might be very warm in winter, but otherwise of doubtful You could always move the chimney somewhere else, couldn't you?
MURIEL: You could always move the chimney somewhere else, couldn't you?
SIMMS: ( rising; resigned to his fate but tactful ) Look, I think I know just about what you two have in mind. Why don't I go ahead with some preliminary plans ( hearty ) You do that, Simms, but remember, we've got to hold it down to ten ( candid ) That, I can tell you right now, is impossible. Even with a considerable trimming of the things you've indicated, I don't see how we can bring it in for less than twelve or ( looks at Muriel; then ) Well, I guess we're not going to quibble about a few pennies one way or the other.
JIM: ( hearty ) You do that, Simms, but remember, we've got to hold it down to ten ( candid ) That, I can tell you right now, is impossible. Even with a considerable trimming of the things you've indicated, I don't see how we can bring it in for less than twelve or ( looks at Muriel; then ) Well, I guess we're not going to quibble about a few pennies one way or the other.
SIMMS: ( candid ) That, I can tell you right now, is impossible. Even with a considerable trimming of the things you've indicated, I don't see how we can bring it in for less than twelve or ( looks at Muriel; then ) Well, I guess we're not going to quibble about a few pennies one way or the other.
JIM: ( looks at Muriel; then ) Well, I guess we're not going to quibble about a few pennies one way or the other.
MURIEL: ( can't resist ) No, you'll find Mr. Blandings never quibbles about pennies.
SIMMS: And uh have you any notions about how you'd like the old place taken down?
JIM: ( a rueful joke ) Why don't we just blow on it?
SIMMS: ( wry smile ) There's a good local house wrecker. I'll have him contact you.
JIM: Fine. You just shoot ahead with those plans, and remember, try to keep it down to ten, ten-five.
SIMMS: ( doubtfully ) Well we'll try.
JIM: There's one good thing about getting that old relic down. Those original beams and everything this time somebody pays us.
DISSOLVE: EXT. ROAD NEAR OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY - WINTER - ( PROCESS MATTE SHOT ) Old Hackett house matted to show winter sky, bare trees. In the f.g. bare ground with patches of snow. Eph Hackett is standing with one of the wreckers. In the b.g. we see the frame of the old house, firmly intact, the chimney still standing within it. There are mountains of shingles, splintered boards and other rubbish, piled about. The piles are reasonably neat and sorted.
HACKETT: Them beams is worth money. You payin' him, or he payin' you?
WRECKER: He's payin' me.
HACKETT: How much?
WRECKER: ( hesitating ) A thousand.
HACKETT: A thousand!
WRECKER: He squawked, but he paid.
HACKETT: ( drily ) Hmm. I guess maybe I got a little somethin' comin' too.
VOICE: Okay, boys, let her go!
MINIATURE SHOT: MINIATURE SHOT - What is left of the house collapses.
JIM: ( sigh ) Well, so far it's cost us thirteen thousand, three hundred and twenty- nine dollars and forty-five cents.
MURIEL: But we've got the nicest vacant lot in the state of Connecticut.
DISSOLVE: SIMMS' NEW PRELIMINARY PLANS INSERT SIMMS' NEW PRELIMINARY PLANS - Fresh and workmanlike, a few small sections crossed out where cuts have been The CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS to disclose:
SIMMS' VOICE: ( wearily ) Something will have to give somewhere, that I know.
MURIEL: It's impossible. I don't see how we can cut another inch.
JIM: Honey, you heard Simms. As the house stands now it's over fifteen thousand Well, it just doesn't seem possible for a house with such small rooms.
MURIEL: Well, it just doesn't seem possible for a house with such small rooms.
SIMMS: ( patiently ) Mrs. Blandings, I've already explained. It's not only the size of the rooms so much as it is the number. You see, our primary problem is one of cubage
JIM: That's right, dear, cubage.
MURIEL: What's that?
JIM: ( sorry he got into it ) just a figure of speech.
MURIEL: But what does it mean?
JIM: ( a little irritably ) Cubage. It's just the number of cubic feet that ( lost, lamely ) go into a cubic foot. Go on, Simms.
SIMMS: ( consulting plans ) Now is it absolutely essential for each of your daughters to have her own room with two closets and a separate bath?
JIM: ( a look at the girls; clearing his throat ) Yes. You see, er, my daughters are, er, approaching womanhood, and, er
SIMMS: ( brief look at the girls ) I hadn't realized they were approaching it quite so fast. ( to Jim ) Perhaps what you need is not so much a house as a series of little ( examining plans ) What about that silly flower sink? We could eliminate that.
JIM: ( examining plans ) What about that silly flower sink? We could eliminate that.
MURIEL: I beg your pardon.
JIM: Or that sewing room upstairs, that's certainly a waste.
MURIEL: If we're going to eliminate anything, we'll lose that ridiculous play room in the basement with that great big poker table.
JIM: Honey, I've got to have some We've got thirty-one and a half acres. Go out in the back and do a little Sure, and get poison ivy!
MURIEL: We've got thirty-one and a half acres. Go out in the back and do a little Sure, and get poison ivy!
JIM: Sure, and get poison ivy!
SIMMS: ( with dogged patience ) If I may interrupt, I'd like to suggest that none of these are really major eliminations. Now if we could do with one less bathroom on the second floor
MURIEL: I'm sorry. We couldn't possibly.
SIMMS: Mrs. Blandings, a simple bathroom, eight by ten by eight with grade A fixtures will cost around thirteen hundred dollars.
MURIEL: I refuse to endanger the health of my children in a house with less than four bathrooms.
JIM: For thirteen hundred dollars they can live in a house with three bathrooms and rough it!
SIMMS: Look, perhaps the most practical thing would be
BETSY: Oh, look, we're in the Lansdale paper! "Historical Society Blasts Vandalism!"
JIM: Muriel, Simms explained to you. We've just got to cut, cut What's that?
BETSY: ( reading ) "Censure Vote Passed re Destruction of Famed Hackett Edifice."
JIM: Well, isn't that just too bad! Let me see that.
MURIEL: What's so funny.
JIM: ( laughing ) Prutty. Mrs. Bildad Prutty. Get a load of this! ( reads ) "The semi-monthly meeting of the Lansdale Historical Society was turned into an uproar last night when its president, Mrs. Bildad Prutty" How do you like that, Bildad Prutty? "reported the total demolition by its New York buyer of the historic old Hackett house." ( laughs ) Bildad Prutty! Muriel, I've got to send this to the New Yorker!
BETSY: ( drily ) Read on, father.
JIM: ( scans paper ) "Mrs. Prutty," Bildad, that is "reminded her audience that several years ago the Society started to raise a fund to purchase and restore the old house to its original ( looks up, laughs scornfully )
BETSY: Read on, father.
JIM: ( back to paper ) "The project fell through by being seven hundred dollars short of the sum of twenty-six hundred dollars." ( Jim slows down as the following registers ) ".which Ephemus Hackett testified was the lowest reasonable price he could accept as "
JIM: ( weakly ) .Twenty-six hundred dollars.
BETSY: And what did we pay, father?
JOAN: Eleven-five, with the commission.
JIM: Muriel, isn't it time for those children to be in bed?
MURIEL: Now girls, I don't want to tell you
MURIEL: Excuse me.
JIM'S VOICE: Twenty-six hundred dollars!
SIMMS' VOICE: ( comfortingly ) I wouldn't be too concerned about Mrs. Prutty and her committee. After all, it's your property and if you want to tear it down
MURIEL: ( surprised ) Why, Bill!
BILL: ( briefly ) Hello, Muriel. ( he strides past her waving a telegram; to Jim ) Well, you've done it again'. Once, just once, why don't you come to me and find out if it's all right, if it's legal, before you go barging off and run yourself smack into another jam!
JIM: What's eating you?
BILL: ( ignoring him; to Simms ) And I must say, Simms, I hold you equally responsible!
JIM: ( alarmed ) What? What happened?
SIMMS: I'm afraid I don't understand.
BILL: ( to Simms; indicating Jim ) Did you let this idiot tear down that house?
JIM: What if he did? What of it?
SIMMS: ( to Bill ) Reconstruction was unsound and totally I quite agree. But you're dealing with a man who doesn't think before he acts, who goes off half-cocked!
BILL: I quite agree. But you're dealing with a man who doesn't think before he acts, who goes off half-cocked!
JIM: What is it? What did I do?
BILL: ( ignoring him; to Simms ) You're an architect! You must have been aware of the legality involved.
JIM: What? What legality?
BILL: ( to Simms ) You knew there was a mortgage on that house.
SIMMS: I assumed as much.
JIM: What happened? What are you talking And you know the requirements in regard to a mortgage where there's demolition intended!
BILL: ( ignoring him; to Simms ) And you know the requirements in regard to a mortgage where there's demolition intended!
SIMMS: Certainly. But since you were his lawyer, I naturally assumed
BILL: With a man like this you can't assume Just one minute! I am entitled to know what I did! This is America! A man's guilty until he's proven It's the other way around, father.
JIM: ( loudly ) Just one minute! I am entitled to know what I did! This is America! A man's guilty until he's proven It's the other way around, father.
BETSY: It's the other way around, father.
JIM: You go to bed!
MURIEL: Bill, I've had a very trying day. Would you mind telling me in clear, concise English just what crime I've committed and why?!
JIM: Bill, I've had a very trying day. Would you mind telling me in clear, concise English just what crime I've committed and why?!
BILL: ( with weary resignation ) In clear, concise English, you tore down a house on which another man holds a mortgage without first getting his written permission.
JIM: Well, I I did?!
BILL: And in such case, the mortgagee can demand the full payment of said mortgage upon demand and Mr. Ephemus Hackett so demands! Six thousand clams! And he wants them now!
JIM: ( appalled ) You've got ten days.
BILL: You've got ten days.
JOAN: For six thousand dollars we could have had a Solaxion house and a Crane Mobile home.
JIM: ( herding the kids toward the door ) Girls, say your good nights and off to bed without another word.
MURIEL: ( herding the kids toward the door ) Girls, say your good nights and off to bed without another word.
BETSY: ( reluctantly ) Good night, Mr. Simms. Uncle Bill.
JOAN: ( protesting ) Miss Stellwagon says the problems of the parents should be the problems of the children.
MURIEL: ( shooing them out ) You keep that in mind, dear. It'll help prepare you for motherhood.
SIMMS: Perhaps we'd better let the plans go for the time being and
JIM: ( weakly ) No, Simms, I'll work this out. You go ahead with your final plans and let's see some estimates.
MURIEL: And we'll just forget about that extra bathroom.
SIMMS: ( preparing to leave ) Very well. You'll hear from me as soon as possible. Good night.
JIM: ( defeated ) Six thousand dollars!
BILL: What'll you do for collateral on your building loan?
JIM: I don't know, turn in my insurance policies or something.
MURIEL: ( coming into scene ) Now, Jim, you can't do that.
JIM: Why not?
MURIEL: What if something should happen? You can't leave the children unprotected.
JIM: ( somewhat irritably ) I'm not dead yet! And if I die, there's plenty left to take care of Not if you cash in your policies.
MURIEL: Not if you cash in your policies.
BILL: I'm sure it won't be necessary. I'll see the boys at the bank. Maybe you can put up your insurance as collateral. If necessary, I'll sign a personal note.
JIM: ( wearily ) Thanks, Bill.
BILL: ( paternally ) And Jim, do me a little favor. The next time you're going to do anything, or say anything, or buy anything, think it over very carefully, and when you're sure you're right forget the whole thing. Good night,
MURIEL: Good night, Bill.
MURIEL: What a wonderful friend.
JIM: ( darkly ) What's with this kissing all of a What's that?
MURIEL: What's that?
JIM: Just because a man is helpful in a business way, it doesn't give him extra-curricular privileges with my That's a fine thing to say about a friend of fifteen years!
MURIEL: That's a fine thing to say about a friend of fifteen years!
JIM: ( testy ) Well, I don't like it. Every time he goes out of this house, he shakes my hand and he kisses you.
MURIEL: ( sharply ) Would you prefer it the other way ( irritably ) Well, I don't like it, that's all! Why is he always hanging around? Why doesn't he ever get married or ( assumed innocence ) Because he can't find another girl as sweet and pretty and wholesome as I am.
JIM: ( irritably ) Well, I don't like it, that's all! Why is he always hanging around? Why doesn't he ever get married or ( assumed innocence ) Because he can't find another girl as sweet and pretty and wholesome as I am.
MURIEL: ( assumed innocence ) Because he can't find another girl as sweet and pretty and wholesome as I am.
JIM: Well it it doesn't look right. There are limits to friendship and
MURIEL: Darling, let's not be silly about this. It's not Bill, it's the house you're upset about.
JIM: ( sigh ) I suppose so.
JIM: Do you think it's worth all this?
MURIEL: Of course, darling. We're not just building a house it's a home. A home for ourselves and our children and maybe our children's children.
JIM: ( whimsically ) It's getting awfully crowded with only three bathrooms.
DISSOLVE: INT. SIMMS' LIVING ROOM - DAY Jim and Muriel are watching Simms, who has just taken a typewritten sheet from his files. Simms looks at the sheet, turns to them a little apprehensively.
SIMMS: Well here are the estimates. Before you look at them, I think I'd better Don't bother, Simms. I'm getting to be an old hand at this sort of
JIM: Don't bother, Simms. I'm getting to be an old hand at this sort of
JIM: Jumping H. Mahogany !!
SIMMS: Now obviously these bids are way out of line, that is, all except John Retch and Son at twenty-one thousand.
MURIEL: ( reacting ) Twenty-one thousand!
SIMMS: And with some judicious cutting, I think we can pare that down to We've only asked for the barest Frankly, with all the extras you two Never mind. If you'll just send us a bill for your services, I'll see that it's taken care of. Now, if you'll excuse us.
MURIEL: We've only asked for the barest Frankly, with all the extras you two Never mind. If you'll just send us a bill for your services, I'll see that it's taken care of. Now, if you'll excuse us.
SIMMS: Frankly, with all the extras you two Never mind. If you'll just send us a bill for your services, I'll see that it's taken care of. Now, if you'll excuse us.
JIM: Never mind. If you'll just send us a bill for your services, I'll see that it's taken care of. Now, if you'll excuse us.
MURIEL: Where are we going?
JIM: I am going out to get my head examined! Then, if I don't jump off the Brooklyn Bridge, I'm going to find the owner of our building and sign a twenty-year lease!
JIM: ( quietly ) What's the name of that contractor?
DISSOLVE: INSERT JIM'S COST CHART. The house rests on the diagonal line at the figure of $13,500. As the miniscule Jim and Muriel watch with apprehension, the small figures of Smith and Hackett are joined by Simms, John W. Retch, and several sub contractors, who put their collective shoulders to the house and push it past the Blandings and up to $31,000.00
DISSOLVE: EXCAVATION - LOCATION #2 - EARLY SPRING - DAY A sign on a sawhorse - it reads:
JIM: ( shouting over noise ) Well, things are certainly humming.
BILL: ( same ) What's that?
JIM: ( same ) I said, humming.
BILL: As they get out of the car, there is an unusually loud crash from the well-digger's rig.
BILL: ( loud ) What's going on over there?
JIM: ( same ) That's Mr. Tesander. He's digging our well.
BILL: ( same ) Well? What happened to the trout stream, with that pure, clear, cold mountain water?
JIM: ( same ) I decided against it
JIM: The trout stream didn't seem practical.
MURIEL: It wasn't exactly a decision, dear. We discovered the trout stream dries up in August and the rest of the year it's polluted.
JIM: ( defensively; groping ) Well, anyway, I'd rather have artesian water. It's healthier. Calcium vitamins artesian
BILL: ( indicating ) What's wrong with that steam shovel?
JIM: Better take a look.
MURIEL: Jim turns in time to see Bill pick Muriel up and carry her across the trench. As he sets her down:
MURIEL: ( sarcastic; to Jim ) Thank you, dear. What's the matter, Mr. Zucca? Something wrong?
JIM: What's the matter, Mr. Zucca? Something wrong?
ZUCCA: How do you lika that? Broka my bucket. Two times this week I broka my bucket?
JIM: What did you do, strike a boulder?
ZUCCA: ( darkly ) Atsa no boulder, atsa ledge.
JIM: ( weakly ) What does that mean?
ZUCCA: Meansa we gotta blast!
JIM: Blast. Witha dynamite.
ZUCCA: Blast. Witha dynamite.
JIM: What do you mean, dynamite?
MURIEL: ( a little annoyed ) What do you mean, "What do you mean?" Mr. Zucca just explained. He's going to use dynamite and blast until he gets rid of the rock.
ZUCCA: Atsa no rock, atsa ledge.
BILL: What Mr. Blandings means is what precisely is a ledge?
ZUCCA: Ledge. Lika bigga stone, only a- Like a boulder?
JIM: Like a boulder?
ZUCCA: No, like ledge.
BILL: .Like a ledge.
ZUCCA: But you don't gotta worry. Only cost twenty-four cents a cubic foot, plussa dynamite an'a fuse.
JIM: But how far will you have to blast?
ZUCCA: Harda tell. Might be a lilla baby ledge mighta run the whole toppa the mountain.
JIM: ( appalled ) At twenty-four cents a foot? Do you realize what that means?!
ZUCCA: ( simply ) Meansa we gotta blast.
JIM: ( with quiet resignation ) Well, anyway, our house will never ( drily ) If it does, we can always get Mr. Apollonio. He raised the Normandie.
MURIEL: ( drily ) If it does, we can always get Mr. Apollonio. He raised the Normandie.
BILL: "Come to peaceful Connecticut Trade city soot for sylvan charm."
JIM: ( irritably ) How long does that go on?
MURIEL: I don't know. Three weeks now at four dollars and fifty cents a foot.
JIM: ( asserting his authority ) I think I'd better have a little talk with Mr. Tesander.
JIM: Oh Mr. Tesander
JIM: ( louder ) Mr. Tesander!
TESANDER: How's it coming?
JIM: How's it coming?
TESANDER: ( considers a moment; then: ) It's comin'.
JIM: No no I mean
JIM: ( shouts ) Mr. Tesander!
TESANDER: What I meant was how far down are
JIM: What I meant was how far down are
TESANDER: Oh 'bout a hundred and ninety Well isn't that pretty deep?
JIM: Well isn't that pretty deep?
TESANDER: ( thinks it over; he's not one for snap judgments; then: )
JIM: Do you think maybe you'd better try another spot?
TESANDER: Up to you.
JIM: I mean well, have you hit anything yet at all?
TESANDER: ( thinks it over ) Hit some limestone yesterday.
JIM: Is that good?
TESANDER: That's bad.
TESANDER: And right now it looks like we're coming into some shale.
JIM: That's bad?
TESANDER: That's good.
JIM: Jim looks at Muriel for comfort which isn't forthcoming.
TESANDER: 'Course it might turn out to be That's bad?
JIM: That's bad?
JIM: That's good?
TESANDER: Can't tell. Might be good. Might be bad. One thing you know you got plenty of shale, sandstone and .I see.
JIM: .I see.
BILL: On a hot day there's nothing like a nice cool limestone shower.
MURIEL: ( sweetly ) Mr. Tesander, just for the record, of course, what ever happened to Oh, it's there, all right. ( he smiles, nods, tips his hat to Muriel ) Just got to be patient.
TESANDER: Oh, it's there, all right. Just got to be patient.
BILL: If you ask me, this project's getting a little out of hand.
JIM: ( defensively ) Nothing's getting out of hand at all. I've made a chart of the whole operation, and ( indicates Tesander ) with a few minor deviations, I know exactly what every penny's going to Two pennies.
MURIEL: Two pennies.
JIM: ( coolly ) And just what does that mean?
BILL: ( drily ) Meansa we gotta blast.
DISSOLVE: JIM'S COST CHART INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - Jim stands casually above the house holding the line with one hand. The group pushing from below now consists of Smith, Hackett, Simms, Retch, Tesander, Zucca and assorted sub-contractors and workmen. As the house moves up a thousand dollars, Jim firmly pushes it back. It now rests at $33,500.
DISSOLVE: INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY Jim and Mary.
JIM: You see, Mary, the average fellow who builds a house doesn't know where he stands from day to day but I do things a little differently. With a few minor deviations I know exactly where every penny is going
BILL: Bill! Come in, come in.
JIM: Bill! Come in, come in.
BILL: ( entering ) Just going over the Knapp contracts with old man Dascomb and I uh ( indicates Mary ) Can I talk?
JIM: ( a little concerned ) Sure. What's up?
BILL: ( obliquely ) While I was in there with Dascomb the conversation kind of got around to you and uh
JIM: ( impatiently ) What is it?
BILL: Well, he didn't say in so many words that ever since you started with that house you haven't turned in a decent piece of copy, but
JIM: But you kind of got the feeling.
BILL: .that if I told you, you'd know that he knew that you knew that he knew. that you knew. or something.
JIM: What's he worrying about? The deadline's three months off. I've
MARY: Hello? Yes. Just a minute. Mrs. Blandings calling from Lensdale.
JIM: Yes, Muriel. What? What's that? Tesander struck water! Say that's We've finally got our well.
BILL: ( drily )
JIM: ( listens at phone ) Huh? What's that? ( face falls ) What do you mean we've got two wells? ( listens; then, grimly ) I'll be right out. ( hangs up, rises ) Come on, Bill, we'd better get out to Lansdale.
MARY: Anything wrong?
JIM: ( soberly, as he slips into his coat ) Mary, have you ever seriously considered building a house?
MARY: Well, no offense, Mr. Blandings, but my boy friend says that anybody who builds a house today is crazy.
JIM: You stick with that boy, he's got a great future.
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE EXCAVATION AT BALD MOUNTAIN - DAY Muriel, Jim, Bill, Simms and Retch stand at the edge looking down at the excavation which is partially filled with bubbling
JIM: You mean you hit a spring, a bubbling spring right here in our cellar?
SIMMS: It'll have to be diverted before Retch here can lay his cement.
RETCH: ( dubiously ) May take a while. Pumps are over in
TESANDER: Tsk, tsk, tsk.
JIM: ( mild sarcasm ) Water, Mr. Tesander.
TESANDER: At six feet!
JIM: At six feet!
TESANDER: ( indicates ) And over there, just thirty-two yards away, you had to go down two hundred and twenty-seven feet to hit the same water.
JIM: ( indicates ) And over there, just thirty-two yards away, you had to go down two hundred and twenty-seven feet to hit the same water.
TESANDER: How do you account for that, Mr.
JIM: How do you account for that, Mr.
TESANDER: We-ll, way it seems to me, Mr. Blandings, over here the water's down around six feet and over there it's uh
DISSOLVE: SPECIAL EFFECT: MONTAGE SPECIAL EFFECT: It consists of a Montage of the following
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE BLANDINGS' HOUSE - DAY The exterior sheathing is completed and, in the roughest of terms, the project begins to resemble a house. Among the workmen's cars we notice the Blandings' convertible.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE INCOMPLETE LIVING ROOM - LOCATION #1 - DAY A dozen hammers, saws, trowels, etc. are heard in other parts of the house busily rasping and banging away. Jim and Muriel and Bill appear in the doorway before entering the rough unfinished interior of what will eventually be the living
BILL: What's this, another closet?
JIM: This happens to be our dining room.
MURIEL: Not the dining room, dear, the living There's the fireplace.
JIM: Then where's the dining room?
BILL: Maybe it's that little room off the That's the breakfast nook.
JIM: That's the breakfast nook.
MURIEL: It's not the breakfast nook, it's the powder room.
JIM: Do me a favor don't ever invite me here for a meal.
BILL: Do me a favor don't ever invite me here for a meal.
FIRST WORKMAN: I don't figure this Blandings at all. If you gotta build on the windiest hill in Connecticut, why do you have to pick the windiest side of the hill?
BILL: ( to workman ) You know these New York millionaires they're eccentric.
JIM: I think I'd like to go outside.
BILL: ( gesture to door ) After you, Rockefeller.
CARPENTER: ( to Jim ) Just the man I want to see. Would you step over here a second?
JIM: ( indicating ) I'll browse around upstairs. ( pointing up ) On them second floor lintels between the lally columns, do you want we should rabbet them or not?
BILL: ( indicating ) I'll browse around upstairs. ( pointing up ) On them second floor lintels between the lally columns, do you want we should rabbet them or not?
CARPENTER: ( pointing up ) On them second floor lintels between the lally columns, do you want we should rabbet them or not?
JIM: ( lost ) The second floor lallys?
CARPENTER: The second floor lintels, between the lallys.
JIM: Oh. Oh, the lintels between the Yeah. From the blueprints you can't tell. You want they should be Un umm. No, I guess not.
CARPENTER: Yeah. From the blueprints you can't tell. You want they should be Un umm. No, I guess not.
JIM: Un umm. No, I guess not.
CARPENTER: Okay, you're the doctor. Hey, fellas, you got any of them rabbeted lintels set, rip 'em out!
JIM: ( sheepishly ) It sounded less. expensive to say
MURIEL: Stop it! Stop it!
VOICE: Okay, fellas, let's quit!
JIM: ( to Muriel ) Now look what you've done.
JIM: ( conciliatory ) Look, men, Mrs. Blandings didn't mean anything. ( the workmen regard him curiously ) I mean, there's no point in walking off a job just because. a woman makes a silly little remark.
WORKMAN: It's Saturday, mister. We quit at twelve o'clock. This ain't a chain gang, you know.
MURIEL: I'm just sick. From the outside this house looks like a grain elevator, and on the inside everything's miles too small.
MURIEL: What's that?
JIM: What's what?
MURIEL: That noise listen. It's coming from the closet!
JIM: What happened?
BILL: The door blew shut. I got locked in.
JIM: Impossible. I had this closet built especially for myself. The lock opens from the inside.
BILL: Maybe for Houdini not for me.
JIM: Nothing to it. A child could work it. Look, I'll show you.
JIM: ( condescendingly ) You see, it just takes a little good old Yankee know-how.
MURIEL: You know, dear, it's just possible the lock worked for you and not for Ridiculous. Even you could do it.
JIM: Ridiculous. Even you could do it.
MURIEL: ( sarcastic ) Thank you.
JIM: Come on, I'll show you.
JIM'S VOICE: Go ahead, dear, just open it.
MURIEL'S VOICE: I don't seem to be able to -
JIM'S VOICE: Here, let me show you! You just take the knob and turn it clockwise.
BILL: Nothing like that good old Yankee
JIM: Hey! Hey! Somebody let us out of
MURIEL: Oh, dear.
BILL: ( drily ) Leave a call for seven o'clock. ( afterthought ) Monday morning.
JIM: If I could just get over to that
JIM: ( still muttering ) Seems a shame but I guess it's the only way.
MURIEL: What are you going to do?
JIM: Don't get panicky, I'll get you out of here. Here, hold this over the window.
JIM: Stand back, Muriel.
JIM: ( to Bill )
BILL: Jim swings; the window shatters. Almost simultaneously there is a click and the door to the closet swings open. As Jim turns with a sense of accomplishment, his face falls as he and the others see that the erratic door has opened.
MURIEL: ( sweetly ) In case of emergency break glass. Come on, Bill.
JIM: ( muttering ) Funny. always worked before. Huh. I wonder.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY Muriel and the children are having breakfast. Jim enters, in fairly high spirits, once again improvising to "Home On The
JIM: ( as he sits down ) "Home, home in Connecticut Where you have to conform to local traditions, customs, politics and ( picks up his morning mail, starts to thumb through it )
JOAN: Dad, do you suppose I could have a chemistry lab in the basement?
JIM: ( preoccupied with mail ) Sure, why not?
BETSY: I think it's awful. Smelling up the house with those horrible chemicals.
MURIEL: Never mind, Betsy. Dear, I'm going up to the place this afternoon to see about landscaping. Bill's driving me.
JIM: ( preoccupied ) That's nice. ( looking up; darkly ) What do you mean, Bill's driving ( a little annoyed ) Why do you always say, "what do you mean," when you know perfectly well what I mean and what you mean?
MURIEL: ( a little annoyed ) Why do you always say, "what do you mean," when you know perfectly well what I mean and what you mean?
JIM: I mean that every time I turn my back Bill Cole's driving you some place or something.
MURIEL: He's only being helpful.
JIM: ( annoyed; tears open a letter ) I thought he was a lawyer! Why isn't he out suing somebody?
JOAN: Bicker, bicker, bicker.
MURIEL: ( to Joan ) Another word and you don't get your Well, that's something!
BETSY: Well, that's something!
JIM: We'll just see about that!
MURIEL: ( concerned ) What is it, dear?
MURIEL: Jim, what's the matter?
JIM: ( into phone; sharply ) Mr. William Cole, please. ( pause; then with rising emotion ) Hello, Bill? I want you to fight this thing! I know my rights as a citizen! They can't get away with it!. What do you mean, what am I talking about? The letter, of course. From the owner of this building. They want us to move! It's a thirty day notice! ( listens a moment ) But that's ridiculous. How can I move into a house that isn't even finished?! No windows, no plaster or paint, or or plumbing! ( listens a moment; then with rising emotion ) Now you listen to me! I have no intention of moving in thirty days! This is not legal! I'm going to fight this thing! And I don't care if it takes every penny I've got! ( listens ) Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right! ( hangs up )
MURIEL: ( expectantly ) ( quietly ) We're moving in thirty days.
JIM: ( quietly ) We're moving in thirty days.
DISSOLVE: EXT. ROAD AND COVERED BRIDGE - DAY Two moving vans are approaching the bridge. Behind them is the Blandings' convertible. In it are Jim, Muriel and the children. Behind it and attached is a trailer. After a pause, over this, we hear:
BILL'S VOICE: So-came thirty days and they moved.
BILL'S VOICE: I mean we moved.
BILL'S VOICE: ( as Jim would say it ) That's the wrong road! Any fool knows
DISSOLVE: EXT. ROAD AT THE HOUSE - DAY The moving vans turn up the new gravel driveway. Jim stops his car and they all look off at the house, react with pleasant surprise.
BILL'S VOICE: Well, there she is, bright and shining and just about complete the residence of Mr. and Mrs. James H. Not bad at that.
BILL'S VOICE: Not bad at that.
BILL'S VOICE: ( efficient scoutmaster ) All right! Everybody out.
BILL'S VOICE: Guess you can't blame them for feeling just a little bit proud.
BILL'S VOICE: ( sentimentally ) Look he wants to carry his wife across the threshold. Romantic, isn't Ooops! I guess I meant "corny."
BILL'S VOICE: Ooops! I guess I meant "corny."
BILL'S VOICE: Uh-uh. Watch that sacroiliac. Fifteen years since you've done this sort of
BILL'S VOICE: Whew! Nice work, Tarzan. Now, let's see if you can make it into the hall.
BILL'S VOICE: That's right. Go right in. Don't pay any attention to the sign.
WET VARNISH: FULL SHOT - FOYER. FULL SHOT - foyer. In the b.g. is a painter, varnishing the floor. He looks up in complete dismay as he sees his newly varnished floor being violated. After a couple of steps, Jim stops, suddenly aware of the painter. The painter rises, throws down his brush, says something caustic.
BILL'S VOICE: ( imitating painter ) Don't mind me, buddy, I just got through varnishing that floor.
BILL'S VOICE: Whose bright idea was this? She just wanted everything to be nice and shiny on the day they moved
BILL'S VOICE: She just wanted everything to be nice and shiny on the day they moved
BILL'S VOICE: Stop painting that floor and put some planks down in here, or some
BILL'S VOICE: Okay, mister, but take it easy. The Republicans ain't in yet, you know.
BILL'S VOICE: Oh, fine! A house without windows! We'll just see about that! Look out for those papers!
BILL'S VOICE: Look out for those papers!
JIM: Where's Simms?
WORKMAN: Around back trying to figure out what to do about them windows.
JIM: What's the problem? You put windows Not these. They don't fit.
WORKMAN: Not these. They don't fit.
JIM: ( angrily; control going ) Oh, they don't, don't they?
RETCH: Oh, Mr. Blandings, you'd better look these over.
JIM: What's this about the windows?
SIMMS: ( calmly ) I'm afraid there's a little slip-up. These windows seem to belong to a Mr. Landings in Fishkill, New York. I talked to Mr. Landings this morning.
JIM: Well, has he got mine?
SIMMS: No, he seems to have some windows that belong to a Mr. Blandsworth of Where are my windows?!
JIM: Where are my windows?!
SIMMS: As near as we can figure out they've either been sent to a Mr. Benton in Evanston, Illinois, or a Mr. Bamberger of Phoenix, Arizona.
JIM: What are we supposed to do live the rest of our lives in a house without windows?
SIMMS: It'll just be a matter of a few days.
BILL: What's a "Zuz-Zuz Water Soft-N-R"?
JIM: How should I know?
BILL: ( indicating ) You've got one.
JIM: ( reading from bill ) "Furnishing and installing one Zuz- Zuz Water Soft-N-R, two hundred and eighty dollars!" ( explosively ) I will not have any such piece of equipment in my house!
SIMMS: I'm afraid I authorized that, Mr. Blandings to save your boiler and water pipes.
JIM: From what?!
SIMMS: Rust. The plumbing man assures us the water from your well is the most corrosive in his entire experience in the trade.
BILL: Another first!
JIM: ( pursing his lips ) ( irritably ) Well, if it's necessary, put it in! We're moving in today, you know and
RETCH: It's in.
JIM: ( a final show of authority; sharply ) Then get me the bill for it!
BILL: ( indicating bill ) You've got it.
JIM: All right then.
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON The moving vans are driving away.
MURIEL: Now I want the living room to be a soft green. Not quite as bluish as a robin's egg, but yet not as yellow as daffodil The best sample I could get is a little too yellow, but don't let whoever mixes it go to the other extreme and get it too blue. It should just be sort of a grayish yellow
PEDELFORD: ( handing him a sample ) The best sample I could get is a little too yellow, but don't let whoever mixes it go to the other extreme and get it too blue. It should just be sort of a grayish yellow ( making a note )
MURIEL: ( handing him a sample ) The best sample I could get is a little too yellow, but don't let whoever mixes it go to the other extreme and get it too blue. It should just be sort of a grayish yellow ( making a note )
PEDELFORD: ( making a note )
MURIEL: Now the dining room I'd like yellow. Not just yellow, a very gay yellow.
PEDELFORD: Something bright and sunshiny. I tell you, Mr. PeDelford, if you'll just send one of your workmen to the A&P for a pound of their best butter and match it exactly, you can't go This is the paper we're going to use here in the foyer. It's flowered but I don't want the ceiling to match any of the colors of the flowers. There are some little dots in the background, and it's these dots I want you to match. Not the little greenish dots near the hollyhock leaf, but the little bluish dot between the rosebud and the delphinium blossom. Is that clear?
MURIEL: Something bright and sunshiny. I tell you, Mr. PeDelford, if you'll just send one of your workmen to the A&P for a pound of their best butter and match it exactly, you can't go This is the paper we're going to use here in the foyer. It's flowered but I don't want the ceiling to match any of the colors of the flowers. There are some little dots in the background, and it's these dots I want you to match. Not the little greenish dots near the hollyhock leaf, but the little bluish dot between the rosebud and the delphinium blossom. Is that clear?
PEDELFORD: ( making a note ) This is the paper we're going to use here in the foyer. ( hands sample to him ) It's flowered but I don't want the ceiling to match any of the colors of the flowers. There are some little dots in the background, and it's these dots I want you to match. Not the little greenish dots near the hollyhock leaf, but the little bluish dot between the rosebud and the delphinium blossom. Is that clear?
MURIEL: This is the paper we're going to use here in the foyer. It's flowered but I don't want the ceiling to match any of the colors of the flowers. There are some little dots in the background, and it's these dots I want you to match. Not the little greenish dots near the hollyhock leaf, but the little bluish dot between the rosebud and the delphinium blossom. Is that clear?
PEDELFORD: ( making note ) The kitchen's to be white. Not a cold, antiseptic hospital white a little warmer but not to suggest any other color but white.
MURIEL: The kitchen's to be white. Not a cold, antiseptic hospital white a little warmer but not to suggest any other color but white.
PEDELFORD: ( note ) Now for the powder room, I want you to match this thread. ( hands him thread ) You can see it's practically an apple red. Somewhere between a healthy Winesap and an unripened Jonathan.
MURIEL: Now for the powder room, I want you to match this thread. You can see it's practically an apple red. Somewhere between a healthy Winesap and an unripened Jonathan.
PEDELFORD: ( making note )
MURIEL: Will you excuse me?
PEDELFORD: Got it, Charlie?
CHARLIE: ( deadpan; indicating rooms with his thumb ) Green, yellow, blue, white, red.
PEDELFORD: INT. PANTRY - OFF KITCHEN - DAY Joan is on a stepladder helping Gussie put away some dishes. Remains of two broken plates are on the floor below them.
DISSOLVE: INT. PANTRY - OFF KITCHEN - DAY Joan is on a stepladder helping Gussie put away some dishes. Remains of two broken plates are on the floor below them.
MURIEL: Joan, you know father was to take care of the heavy dishes.
JOAN: He disappeared. I haven't seen him for an hour.
BETSY: Where's Uncle Bill? I just checked the timetable he's going to miss his train.
MURIEL: If they've run off somewhere it certainly isn't very
MURIEL: She rushes for the door.
QUICK DISSOLVE: UPSTAIRS LANDING Muriel opens the closet door revealing Jim and Bill, who have been locked in the closet for the last hour. Each leans against the wall, arms folded, in an attitude of boredom and disgust. Without a word Jim and Bill exit from the closet. The three start down the stairs.
UPSTAIRS LANDING: Muriel opens the closet door revealing Jim and Bill, who have been locked in the closet for the last hour. Each leans against the wall, arms folded, in an attitude of boredom and disgust. Without a word Jim and Bill exit from the closet. The three start down the stairs.
JIM: ( darkly ) I thought you were going to take care of it.
MURIEL: I thought you were.
BETSY: ( from below ) You're going to miss your train, Uncle Bill! It leaves Lansdale in twenty-five minutes.
BILL: Isn't there a later one?
BETSY: Not till the Commuter's Special tomorrow morning at six-fifteen.
JIM: You mean seven-fifteen.
BETSY: No, Dad, six-fifteen.
JIM: What about the seven-fifteen I'm supposed to take to the office every There's a little asterisk. The seven- fifteen only runs Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
BETSY: ( consulting timetable ) There's a little asterisk. The seven- fifteen only runs Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
JIM: ( taking timetable ) Let me see that! ( scans table, tightlipped ) Oh, dear, don't tell me I read it That's fine! For the rest of my life I'm going to have to get up at five o'clock in the morning to catch the six-fifteen, to get to my office by eight, which doesn't even open until nine and which I never get to until ten!
MURIEL: Oh, dear, don't tell me I read it That's fine! For the rest of my life I'm going to have to get up at five o'clock in the morning to catch the six-fifteen, to get to my office by eight, which doesn't even open until nine and which I never get to until ten!
JIM: That's fine! For the rest of my life I'm going to have to get up at five o'clock in the morning to catch the six-fifteen, to get to my office by eight, which doesn't even open until nine and which I never get to until ten!
MURIEL: Perhaps if you started earlier you could quit earlier.
JIM: ( sharply ) So I could get home earlier to go to bed earlier to get up earlier!
BILL: Maybe you can have the railroad push the train up to four-fifteen then you won't have to go to bed at all!
BETSY: Uncle Bill, you're going to miss your train!
MURIEL: Jim, you clean up this mess. I'll drive Bill to the station and pick up some cold cuts for dinner. You'd better hurry!
BETSY: You'd better hurry!
BILL: ( indicating upstairs closet ) Kind of hate to leave that little place. Just four walls and a couple of mothballs, but to me it'll always be home.
JIM: ( preoccupied with timetable ) So long, Bill.
JOAN: It's certainly going to be fun this summer when Uncle Bill comes up for his vacation.
BETSY: We'll get in a lot of doubles.
JIM: ( looks up from timetable ) What are you talking about? Bill's going to Europe.
BETSY: No, he's not. I heard him and mother talking. He's going to move his vacation up and take a place in Uh-huh. Mm-hm. Mm-hm. Uh-huh. All right, come on, come on. Get
JIM: ( vaguely annoyed ) Uh-huh. Mm-hm. Mm-hm. Uh-huh. ( then, covering up ) All right, come on, come on. Get
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' CAR - ( PROCESS ) Evening is beginning to fall as Muriel drives Bill into town.
MURIEL: I'll scout around and find you a place in Lansdale. Now, you're not going to change your mind about coming up?
BILL: Don't worry, I'll be on the job.
MURIEL: It won't be easy. I promise you a Cook's tour of every lamp maker, rug weaver, and antique shop in Lansdale When I married you two I suppose I took you for better or for worse.
BILL: ( philosophically ) When I married you two I suppose I took you for better or for worse.
MURIEL: Good old Uncle Bill.
BILL: ( drily ) Good old Uncle Bill.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT It is dark outside and getting quite chilly. The children are unpacking a last barrel. They have made a rather unsteady pile of books and boxes, obviously Muriel's personal effects. Jim is in the process of trying to start his first fire in the fireplace. The immediate result is a clouding of the room with smoke. As he backs away, coughing, he bumps into the pile which falls to the floor spilling open a box which contains, among other things, Muriel's diary and a lifetime accumulation of sentimental trinkets.
JIM: Now look what you've done!
BETSY: Father, the first principle of lighting a fire is to see if the flue is open. A three-year-old child knows that.
JIM: Next time we want a fire I'll send out for a three-year-old child! Get that stuff cleaned up and go in and help Gussie set the table. It's getting late.
JOAN: Look, Dad, your fraternity pins.
JIM: ( busy cleaning the fireplace ) Pins? I only had one.
JOAN: There are two of them here.
JIM: All right, all right. Just put them Funny, this one says W.C. on the back. W.C.? William Cole! It must be Uncle Bill's!
JOAN: ( examining them ) Funny, this one says W.C. on the back. W.C.? ( brightly ) William Cole! It must be Uncle Bill's!
JIM: ( reaching for it ) Let me see that. ( examining pin )
JOAN: What's that?
BETSY: Mother's diary when she was in college. It's slightly torrid.
JOAN: ( coming over ) Let's see.
JIM: ( sharply ) That's none of your business!
BETSY: ( scanning page ) I'd say mother and Uncle Bill were somewhat of an item!
JIM: ( taking book from Betsy ) People do not read other people's diaries! It's not a very nice thing to do! ( shooting them out ) Now go in there and help Gussie with the table.
BETSY: ( indicating debris ) What about ?
JIM: I'll take care of that. Now, shoo,
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT The wind is howling, the trees swaying. The lights are on in the kitchen. CAMERA MOVES UP to the open kitchen window.
MURIEL: Where are you going?
JIM: To shave.
MURIEL: While I can still trust myself with a razor. At six o'clock in the morning I'd probably cut my throat. Goodnight.
JIM: While I can still trust myself with a razor. At six o'clock in the morning I'd probably cut my throat. Goodnight.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' BATHROOM - NIGHT Jim, in his pajamas and overcoat is shaving. After a few moments Muriel, in her nightgown and overcoat, enters the She takes her toothbrush and opens the cabinet, Jim automatically moving around back of it in their previously established pattern. As Muriel puts the paste on her brush, replaces the tube, shuts the cabinet and starts to brush her teeth, Jim uncomfortably moves back to his original position.
MURIEL: She takes her toothbrush and opens the cabinet, Jim automatically moving around back of it in their previously established pattern. As Muriel puts the paste on her brush, replaces the tube, shuts the cabinet and starts to brush her teeth, Jim uncomfortably moves back to his original position.
MURIEL: Muriel, do you have to do that now?!
JIM: Muriel, do you have to do that now?!
MURIEL: There's no need to be so irritable just because you have to shave at I'm not irritable!
JIM: I'm not irritable!
MURIEL: Well, you're certainly something! You haven't said a civil word all Sometimes a man doesn't feel like What is it, dear? Something down at the office?
JIM: Sometimes a man doesn't feel like What is it, dear? Something down at the office?
MURIEL: ( solicitously ) What is it, dear? Something down at the office?
JIM: Have you got the new slogan for It's not due yet!
MURIEL: Have you got the new slogan for It's not due yet!
JIM: It's not due yet!
MURIEL: Well, it's something. You're certainly upset about something. I can always I'm not upset. It's just that I don't happen to approve of falsehood and deception. Particularly in my own wife.
JIM: I'm not upset. It's just that I don't happen to approve of falsehood and deception. Particularly in my own wife.
MURIEL: What are you talking about?
JIM: ( same ) Oh, nothing. It's just that I distinctly remember your telling me you gave back Bill's fraternity pin fifteen years ago.
JIM: Well, did you or didn't you?
MURIEL: Did I, or didn't I what?
JIM: Give it back to him.
MURIEL: Of course I did. If I said I did, I Then perhaps you'd have the goodness to explain how this happened to fall out of your jewel box?
JIM: ( suddenly Sam Spade ) Then perhaps you'd have the goodness to explain how this happened to fall out of your jewel box?
JIM: What's so funny?
MURIEL: You! You're jealous! You're standing there with your face full of soap and you're jealous.
JIM: ( angrily ) If you were so crazy about the guy, why didn't you marry him?!
MURIEL: ( beginning to be a little angry ) Because I wasn't in love with him!
JIM: ( vindictively ) That's not what you said in your ( now really angry ) Oh, now you've been reading my diary!
MURIEL: ( now really angry ) Oh, now you've been reading my diary!
JIM: ( a little guilty ) Well it happened to fall open and. I. happened to look at it. It. just happened.
MURIEL: I'll just bet!
JIM: It's all over the book so why don't you admit it? You were in love with Bill Cole!
MURIEL: Don't be absurd! Of course I was in love with Bill. In those days I was in love with a new man every week.
JIM: Then why did you marry me?
MURIEL: I'm beginning to wonder! Maybe it was those big cow eyes of yours or that ridiculous hole in your chin! Maybe I knew that some day you'd bring me out to this thirty- eight thousand dollar icebox with a dried-up trout stream and no windows! Or maybe I just happened to fall in love with you but for heaven's sake, don't ask me why!
JIM: ( tentatively )
JIM: No reaction.
JIM: Would it do any good to say I'm sorry?
MURIEL: I don't know.
JIM: Well I am. I acted like a schoolboy and I'm sorry.
MURIEL: Oh, Jim!
MURIEL: ( dreamily ) Why don't you take the soap out of your ears?
JIM: ( same ) Why do I love you so much?
MURIEL: ( breathless ) Darling, it's awfully late.
MURIEL: ( same ) Maybe you ought to go down and lock the doors.
JIM: ( kissing her ear ) What for? The windows are all open ( as he starts to kiss her again ) Jim, you have to get up at six ( considers; logic prevails; brief sigh ) Yes, I guess so.
MURIEL: ( as he starts to kiss her again ) Jim, you have to get up at six ( considers; logic prevails; brief sigh ) Yes, I guess so.
JIM: ( considers; logic prevails; brief sigh ) Yes, I guess so.
MURIEL: ( reluctantly ) Goodnight, dear.
JIM: ( same )
DISSOLVE: INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - The house now wavers at $37,000. As Jim and Muriel still try to stem the tide, the group that is pushing the house ever upward includes all of the previous people connected with the house and in addition plumbers, painters, landscape gardeners, etc. Over this, and across the scene flutter more bills, more extras.
BILL'S VOICE: And so the days sped by and the bills and the extras and as the house approached forty thousand dollars, Jim approached his deadline for the new slogan. It was almost a photo finish.
DISSOLVE: EXT. RADIO CITY - NIGHT ( STOCK ) It is raining. The lights are on in the buildings.
JIM: You'd better send out for coffee and sandwiches,. It looks like an all night session.
MARY: ( concerned ) What did he say?
JIM: ( wearily, seating himself at desk ) Tomorrow morning.
MARY: ( sighs ) Well, I guess you'll just have to dream something up good or bad.
JIM: I rather got the impression it had better be good.
MARY: ( raised eyebrow )
JIM: ( ruminatively, almost to himself ) Funny how you look forward to the little things. Rain, for instance.
JIM: For a month now, I guess I've been looking forward to the first rainy night at the house. Big blazing fire. Muriel knitting. Me in my new smoking jacket. with my pipe and slippers, reading my Oh, well.
DISSOLVE: INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT Note: The house is painted and almost completely furnished. A hard rain beats on the windows. There is a blazing fire in the fireplace. Muriel, in a warm bathrobe, sits near it, comfortably knitting. In fact, the scene is exactly the one Jim has just described, except that the man with slippers, pipe and smoking jacket, reading the paper, is Bill Cole. Near the fire, Bill's rain-drenched jacket, shirt and shoes are hanging up to dry. The cozy tranquillity is broken by a sharp RINGING of the front doorbell.
MURIEL: ( with relief ) Thank heavens! The children.
BILL: ( rising ) Stay put. You look too comfortable.
MR. JONES: Whew! What a night! I'm Jones, from down the road. Just came over to tell you your kids are all right, Mr. Blandings.
BILL: Oh, I'm not Mr. Blandings. Cole's the name, Bill Cole.
BILL: Friend of the family. Wet clothes. Just came in out of the rain.
MURIEL: I'm Mrs. Blandings.
JONES: How do. Mrs. Williams just called. Says your phone's out of order. Wanted me to tell you the water's rising and they've got the bridge roped off. Girls'll spend the night over at her place.
MURIEL: Thank you. I was beginning to get concerned. Can I make you a cup of No, thanks. Better be gettin' back 'fore I have to swim for it. 'Night, Mrs. Blandings. 'Night, Mr. Bl
JONES: No, thanks. Better be gettin' back 'fore I have to swim for it. 'Night, Mrs. Blandings. 'Night, Mr. Bl
BILL: ( weak smile ) Cole. Bill Cole. Friend of the family. Just came in out of the rain.
JONES: ( uncertainly ) Well 'Night.
MURIEL: Goodnight. and thanks so much.
BILL: That's fine. No bridge. How do I get back to Lansdale?
MURIEL: ( simply ) You'll just have to spend the night right here.
BILL: Muriel, really! With your husband in New York and your children away think of my reputation.
MURIEL: ( smile ) Don't worry, Snow White, you'll be as pure and unsullied in the morning as you were the night before.
BILL: ( with resignation ) That's the story of my life.
MURIEL: Poor Jim, he sounded so worried before. I certainly hope he comes up with something.
BILL: Don't worry about the man who gave the world "When you've got the whim, say Wham!" This well will never run dry.
SLOW DISSOLVE: INT. JIM'S OFFICE - EARLY MORNING The CAMERA COMES IN ON a package of cigarettes. A finger impatiently rips open what is left of the package, discloses that it is empty. The ANGLE WIDENS to reveal a tired, disheveled Jim. Disgusted, he fishes the most likely butt from a tray littered with them. With considerable difficulty he manages to light it, only to burn his nose. Impatiently stamping out the butt he rises, stretches, walks to the window, pulls up the shade. Early morning sunlight floods the room. He turns off a standing lamp, looks thoughtfully out the window, suddenly gets an idea. Turning, he snaps his fingers. Mary, who is asleep on the desk, her head resting on her elbows, raises her head, opens a sleepy eye.
JIM: ( selling; a note of desperation in his voice ) "Compare the price, compare the slice, Take our advice Buy Wham!"
JIM: "If you'd buy better ham. You'd better buy Wham!"
MARY: It's Boyle Petroleum. "If you'd buy better oil, You'd better buy Boyle."
JIM: "This little pig went to market As meek and as mild as a lamb. He smiled in his tracks When they slipped him the axe He knew he'd turn out to be
JIM: ( quietly ) ".knew he'd turn out to be Wham!"
JIM: ( rising panic ) It's gone! I've lost my touch! Maybe I never had a touch! Maybe "Whim Say Wham" was an accident! Who knows? I can't think any more! All I've got on my mind is a house with an eighteen thousand dollar mortgage, and bills, and extras, and antiques, and and ( dejected ) I don't know. I don't know.
MARY: ( startled ) Where are you going?
JIM: Home, to get some sleep and I'd advise you to do the same.
MARY: But but you haven't
JIM: Suppose I haven't! This isn't the only job in town!
MARY: But but what'll I tell Mr. You just tell him to to You just tell him!
JIM: ( sharply ) You just tell him to to ( with finality ) You just tell him!
DISSOLVE: EXT. THE BLANDINGS' HOME - DAY It is an especially beautiful, sunshiny morning. A rural- looking taxi deposits a weary Jim, who pays the driver. As the cab drives off, Jim looks speculatively at Simms' car, which is parked there, yawns, stretches, opens the door and enters. Under this a slightly sour underscoring of "Home On The Range."
JIM: 'Morning, dear.
MURIEL: ( going to him; solicitously ) Darling, you must be exhausted. How did it go?
JIM: Fine. Fine.
MURIEL: ( obliquely ) Is. everything all right?
JIM: ( unenthusiastic ) Everything's fine. ( still in embrace; looking up ) Hello, Simms, what brings you out with the morning dew?
SIMMS: Just dropped by to check the blueprints. Some extras came in from Retch this morning and there're a couple of things I thought we ought to go over together.
JIM: ( arms still around Muriel; unconcerned ) Really. What are they?
SIMMS: Well, let's see. Few little things here, all right, I guess. "Mortising five butts a dollar sixty-eight."
JIM: Let's not quibble about that. A man's entitled to mortise a few butts now and then.
SIMMS: ( next sheet ) Extra nails and screws three dollars, eighty-nine cents.
JIM: Petty larceny, but let him get away with it.
SIMMS: Now there's one here I frankly don't understand. Ah, here we are. "Changes in closet, twelve hundred and forty-seven dollars." Did you authorize that?
JIM: Well, we probably told him to Twelve hundred and what?!
SIMMS: Forty-seven dollars. Changes in
JIM: ( explosively ) Who does he think we are! ( looks at bill; very businesslike ) What's this notation: "Refer to Detail Sheet Number one thirty-five?"
SIMMS: ( indicating blueprints ) Far as I remember, that would be something in the back of the house. Let's just take a look.
SIMMS: Ah, here we are. It isn't a closet at all. It's off the back pantry. Mrs. Blandings' little flower sink.
JIM: Oh. Mrs. Blandings' little flower You didn't authorize any changes, did you?
SIMMS: ( to Muriel ) You didn't authorize any changes, did you?
MURIEL: ( defensively ) Well. they certainly weren't What have you done?
JIM: What have you done?
MURIEL: ( speaking rapidly a little confused ) I haven't done anything! And what I did was. just nothing at all.
JIM: What have you done?!
MURIEL: ( rattling off ) All I did was one day I saw four pieces of flagstone left over from the porch that were just going to be thrown away because nobody wanted them and I asked Mr. Retch if he wouldn't just put them down on the floor of the flower sink and poke a little cement between the cracks and give me a nice stone floor where it might be wet with flowers and things. That was absolutely all I did.
JIM: That's all you did?
MURIEL: Absolutely. Just four little pieces of flagstone.
SIMMS: ( to Muriel; wearily ) Did you by any chance authorize a ( verge of tears ) Of course I didn't. All I said was I wanted a nice stone floor and Mr. Retch was just as nice as could be and said, "You're the doctor," and that's all anybody ever said to anybody about anything.
MURIEL: ( verge of tears ) Of course I didn't. All I said was I wanted a nice stone floor and Mr. Retch was just as nice as could be and said, "You're the doctor," and that's all anybody ever said to anybody about anything.
JIM: ( sigh; plunging in ) All right, I think I can tell you what happened. First, the carpenters had to rip up the flooring that was already laid. Those planks run under the whole width of the pantry, so Retch had to knock the bottom out of the pantry wall to get at them.
SIMMS: ( sigh; plunging in ) All right, I think I can tell you what happened. First, the carpenters had to rip up the flooring that was already laid. Those planks run under the whole width of the pantry, so Retch had to knock the bottom out of the pantry wall to get at them.
SIMMS' VOICE: Then he had to chop out the tops of the joists under the flower sink space to make room for a cradle. I guess he bought some iron straps and fastened them to a big pan to give him something to hold the cement. What with that added load on the weakened joists, I'll bet he had to put a lally column down there for support, too.
MURIEL: It was just four little pieces of flagstone, and I only -
JIM: GROUP SHOT - DURING THE FOLLOWING SPEECH GROUP SHOT - During the following speech we see Bill Cole, in Jim's pajamas and robe come down the stairs and enter the room. Jim and Muriel are not aware of his presence.
SIMMS: Well, the main soil pipe runs under there on wall brackets, so Retch had to get his plumbing man back to take out a section so he could get that cradle set. I guess that meant he had to change the pitch of the soil pipe from one end of the house to the other. 'Morning, Mr. Cole.
BILL: 'Morning. Hello, Jim.
JIM: ( turning ) Hello, Bill.
MURIEL: ( lamely ) The bridge was roped off and Bill had to stay last night.
JIM: ( cheerily ) Slept like a rock.
BILL: ( cheerily ) Slept like a rock.
JIM: I'm delighted.
SIMMS: ( clearing his throat ) And then, of course, there are hot and cold water pipes hooked to the joists right under that pantry. They go up to the wing bathroom on the second floor, and I'll bet my bottom dollar he had to relocate them.
SIMMS' VOICE: And I guess the electrician had to rip out about sixty feet of armored cable between the main panel and the junction box by the oil burner, including the two hundred twenty volt cable that goes to the stove.
GUSSIE: 'Morning, everybody. Whew! What a Where have you been?
JIM: Where have you been?
GUSSIE: Lansdale. Couldn't get back across the bridge.
JIM: You. weren't here last night?
GUSSIE: They weren't letting anybody across that bridge, Mr. Blandings. I passed the girls over at the Williams. They'll be along any minute.
MURIEL: ( quickly ) Thank you, Gussie. You'd better get breakfast started.
MURIEL: Where were we?
BILL: We were at the two hundred twenty volt cable that goes to the stove.
JIM: Just a minute. You mean the children weren't here last night either?
MURIEL: How could they be, dear? The bridge was closed.
JIM: I just came across it.
MURIEL: Well, it was closed last night.
JIM: ( pointedly ) It's open now!
BILL: ( attempt at breeziness ) If you'll all excuse me I I think I'll just go up and slip into something a little more comfortable.
SIMMS: ( rapidly ) Well, that's about the size of it
SIMMS: except that Retch had to repair the pantry wall and that meant getting a plasterer back. And of course, he couldn't have broken through that All right, Simms, all right. We'll take care of it.
JIM: All right, Simms, all right. We'll take care of it.
SIMMS: ( preparing to exit ) I'll admit it's a little steep. But I'll try to get Retch to knock a hundred dollars off the bill. If I can't get that, I'll certainly try for seventy-five.
JIM: If he doesn't go for seventy-five, I'll take a stab at fifty.
SIMMS: If he doesn't go for seventy-five, I'll take a stab at fifty.
JIM: You do that.
SIMMS: ( at the door ) Anyway, I'm almost sure we can get
SIMMS: ( lamely ) Well. Good day.
MURIEL: ( carefully ) Now dear, you're upset, you've got a lot of things on your mind
JIM: ( with dangerous calm ) Muriel, there's only one thing on my mind This house and how fast we can get rid of it!
MURIEL: That's not what you're thinking.
JIM: Maybe it's not. Maybe I'm thinking I was once a happy man! I didn't have a closet, I didn't have three bathrooms, but I did have my sanity, a few dollars in the bank, two children who loved me and a wife I could trust!
MURIEL: That's a fine thing to say!
JIM: I also had a job at Danton and Bascomb, something I don't happen to have at the moment!
MURIEL: That's right, I've resigned! We're starting all over again! From scratch! And without this house!
JIM: That's right, I've resigned! We're starting all over again! From scratch! And without this house!
MURIEL: ( near tears ) You love this house!
JIM: I hate it!
MURIEL: You don't mean that.
JIM: Every word of it! Anybody who builds a house today is crazy! The minute you start, they put you on the list. The All-American Sucker list! Everywhere you turn they've got a hand in your pocket. If you take out their hands, they find more pockets! It's a conspiracy, I tell you, a conspiracy against every man and woman who want a home of their own! Against every boy and girl who were ever in love!
JIM: ( sharply ) What do you want?!
TESANDER: ( shyly ) Well, Mr. Blandings, there's a matter of twelve dollars and eighty-six ( with a wild gleam ) Twelve dollars and eighty-six cents! Why be a piker, Mr. Tesander? ( emptying pockets ) Take everything I've got! Spread it out among your pals! ( advancing toward the bewildered Tesander ) Wouldn't Retch like a little something? Maybe Zucca could use my new dinner jacket? It's open house, Mr. Tesander! Help yourself! If this isn't enough I'll come over to your place and do some odd chores. Maybe I can mow your lawn or scratch your ( simply ) You don't understand, Mr. Blandings. This twelve dollars and eighty-six cents you don't owe me, I owe
JIM: ( with a wild gleam ) Twelve dollars and eighty-six cents! Why be a piker, Mr. Tesander? ( emptying pockets ) Take everything I've got! Spread it out among your pals! ( advancing toward the bewildered Tesander ) Wouldn't Retch like a little something? Maybe Zucca could use my new dinner jacket? It's open house, Mr. Tesander! Help yourself! If this isn't enough I'll come over to your place and do some odd chores. Maybe I can mow your lawn or scratch your ( simply ) You don't understand, Mr. Blandings. This twelve dollars and eighty-six cents you don't owe me, I owe
TESANDER: ( simply ) You don't understand, Mr. Blandings. This twelve dollars and eighty-six cents you don't owe me, I owe
JIM: .W-what was that?
TESANDER: ( taking out money ) Found I overcharged you. Almost three
TESANDER: Better count it. I think it's all
MURIEL: Thank you very much, Mr. Tesander.
TESANDER: Well, I guess I'd better be gettin' Sure got a pretty place here. I'll tell Mr. Zucca about the dinner
BILL: Oh, Mr. Tesander could you give me a lift to town?
TESANDER: Be right with you.
BILL: Be right with you.
MURIEL: ( concerned ) What did you mean before about losing your job? Will we really have to sell the house?
JIM: ( miserable ) I don't know, dear. I don't know.
BILL: In case anyone's interested, I'm leaving for town. If you want to count the silverware, I'll wait.
JIM: ( sheepishly ) Bill, be patient with me. Maybe one of these days I'll grow up.
BILL: ( to Muriel ) What happened to him?
MURIEL: Twelve dollars and eighty-six cents.
BILL: Mind if I say something?
BILL: You know, I've kind of been the voice of doom about this whole project. Every step of the way I was firmly convinced you were getting fleeced, bilked, rooked, flimflammed and generally taken to the cleaners. And maybe you were. Maybe it cost you a whole lot more than you thought it would. Maybe there were times when you wished you'd never started the whole thing. But when I look around and see what you two have here I don't know. Maybe there are some things you should buy with your heart and not with your head. Maybe those are the things that really count. See you around. 'Morning, everybody!
BETSY: 'Morning, everybody!
JOAN: ( surprised ) Hi, Dad! How come you're not at the ( a look at Muriel ) I'm on a. kind of a vacation.
JIM: ( a look at Muriel ) I'm on a. kind of a vacation.
JOAN: You mean you got fired?
JIM: Well, not exactly, I
MURIEL: We'll discuss it later.
GUSSIE: ( brightly ) Come and get it! Breakfast everybody.
BETSY: Good! I'm starving! What are we having, Gussie?
GUSSIE: Orange juice, scrambled eggs and you- Not ham Wham! If you ain't eatin' Wham, you ain't eatin' ham!
JOAN: ( making a face ) Not ham Wham! ( cheerily ) If you ain't eatin' Wham, you ain't eatin' ham!
GUSSIE: Not ham Wham! If you ain't eatin' Wham, you ain't eatin' ham!
JIM: What did she say?
JIM: Darling, give Gussie a ten dollar
DISSOLVE: INSERT ADVERTISEMENT IN MAGAZINE - It is a picture of Gussie, smiling, holding a platter with an enormous ham. Under it, the simple caption:
JIM: ( with simple sincerity ) Drop in and see us sometime.
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Melvin Frank Norman Panama
