SHOOTING DRAFT: EXT. MAIN STREET, SMALL TOWN - DAY A freight truck of late 1950's vintage pulls to the side of the road in a small rural town. A handsome, well-built man gets out of the passenger side and thanks the Driver. THE NEWCOMER carries his coat over his shoulder and a beat-up suitcase; he's got a jut jaw and a modified pompadour, his shirtsleeves are rolled all the way up past his biceps. He wipes his brow against the sweltering heat and looks around. [Until noted below, this section of the movie is in BLACK &
WHITE.]: FOLLETT ( V.O. )
LANDLADY: .not very fancy. house needs repairs. We haven't had a man around here for so long.
MUMFORD: ( softer ) That's all the time we have. ( indicates his watch ) .next time.
FOLLETT: I have eighteen more minutes!
MUMFORD: I don't want to hear any more today.
FOLLETT: Why not?
MUMFORD: Mr. Follett, do you trust me or don't Well, I don't know. I only been seeing you
FOLLETT: Well, I don't know. I only been seeing you
MUMFORD: Without trust, there's no point to any of this. You might as well not Now hold on, I didn't say I didn't want to come
FOLLETT: Now hold on, I didn't say I didn't want to come
MUMFORD: Good, then go.
LILY: You're early. it's not ready. What My patient had to leave early.
MUMFORD: My patient had to leave early.
LILY: Who was that?
MUMFORD: Does the phrase "nosy" have any meaning to you, Lily?
LILY: I think it's like. inquisitive.
MUMFORD: It was Henry Follett.
LILY: ( reacts ) Man, you see him a lot. And it's very wrong to reveal it. Next you'll be saying what his problem is.
MUMFORD: What do you want to know?
LILY: You're terrible. I'm never telling you anything.
PATRON: Hey, Doc. how's it going?
MUMFORD: Fine, Vincent. how's yourself?
LILY: How long you been in this town?
MUMFORD: Oh, I don't know.
LILY: Four months, two and a half weeks that's how long. And you've already got more patients than those other two shrinks combined.
MUMFORD: Lily, I don't think even you could know that
LILY: Look at that guy.
LILY: You know who that is, don't you? You really don't? That's Skip Skipperton, man. He gets himself hit by a truck, this whole town shuts Oh, so that's him? The Panda Man. So, what makes you so popular? What's your secret?
MUMFORD: Oh, so that's him? The Panda Man. So, what makes you so popular? What's your secret?
LILY: So, what makes you so popular? What's your secret?
MUMFORD: ( takes his bag to go ) You like me. How come?
LILY: Not sure. Let me think about it.
LIONEL: That's the new psychiatrist?
LILY: Psychologist. He's not medical.
LIONEL: Probably thinks he's pretty smart.
NESSA: .so he already had the tattoo that said, "Naomi Forever". and now they're broken up, see, and he has to have it removed. But while the scar is still healing, or whatever you call it when you have a tattoo removed, he meets Chandra. And it's serious, immediate love. So in no time, he's gone from the most gorgeous model in the world to the most gorgeous actress in North America.
MUMFORD: What do you mean, "in no time"?
NESSA: In maybe three or four issues.
MUMFORD: Weekly or monthly?
NESSA: Monthly! God, how shallow do you think Brad is? Why do I waste my time telling you this stuff?
MUMFORD: Why do you think you tell me, Nessa?
NESSA: Don't do that thing. .that shrink thing.
MUMFORD: It's a big part of the show.
NESSA: You really need to let people smoke in here, you know. It's perverse. What are they paying you to see me?
NESSA: The school board doesn't pay you? What kind of deal is that?
MUMFORD: It's called pro bono.
NESSA: Pro boner? Pro bono, huh? For whose good, It's my bit for the community.
MUMFORD: It's my bit for the community.
NESSA: Fuck the community. There was this article my friends and I read. It was "25 Signs He's Great in Bed". It was very Where was this?
MUMFORD: Where was this?
NESSA: Where?. The New York Times. The first one was "he handles produce well." Which we already knew! The point is, you have a lot of the You been spying on me in the supermarket, Nessa?
MUMFORD: You been spying on me in the supermarket, Nessa?
NESSA: Have women found you attractive?
NESSA: I knew you wouldn't answer. I've been thinking about what you said last time. How me trying to lose weight and constantly not is like a lot of people with addictions. How maybe I can't lose the weight, Which we already knew.
MUMFORD: That's not quite what I said
NESSA: It's a really weird thing for a shrink to say. and then you said maybe people'd be happier if they'd accept that some things don't change that it'd be some kind of a relief or something.
NESSA: Well, I guess I'm just a dumb bitch, but how depressing is that moment the moment when you give up?
SKIP: Mumford looks up, smiles. Skip offers his hand.
SKIP: You're Doc Mumford. Skip Skipperton.
MUMFORD: How are you?
SKIP: Fine. Okay. Pretty good. I've been hoping we'd meet. I've heard a lot about you.
SKIP: Do you think we could.? Can I buy you a drink?
SKIP: ."Find the need and fill it" my dad used to say I guess a lot of dads say that but I did and it just took off.
MUMFORD: No kidding. Panda. Where'd that come from?
SKIP: Panda? I've always liked giant pandas. I've been to China and seen them in the wild. That's the kind of thing I can do if I want. now. I can do pretty much anything I want to do these days.
SKIP: So now we make 23% of the modems in the market, which is pretty good.
SKIP: When I was growing up here, the town was about dead. The timber business was played out. Panda changed all that. Now, just about everybody in town either works for the company or depends on it somehow. Which is kinda the problem.
SKIP: Would you like another beer?
MUMFORD: Nah. scotch.
SKIP: ( brightens, like a kid ) Far out. Single malt? ( gets up ) Can I pick it?
MUMFORD: You want me. to be. your friend.
MUMFORD: But that's not what's really going .What's really going on is. you have some problems and you want some therapy, but you feel it could be very bad for Panda Modem stock if word got out that you were having head problems.
MUMFORD: Can I ask you a personal question?
SKIP: Of course! That's exactly what I Have you thought about getting a
MUMFORD: Have you thought about getting a
SKIP: When Panda started to happen, I was dating women from New York, San Francisco, L.A. They came out of the woodwork. Models, actresses, venture capitalists. These were not the kind of girls who were interested in me before I hit it. And you know what I discovered? I discovered these girls did not love me for myself. The majority of them didn't even like me. But a lot of them would've gladly become Mrs. Skipperton for a while. Can you imagine that marrying someone just because they've got money?
SKIP: I gotta pee. Can I ask you something? This town is called Mumford. Been that way since. 18. 18-0. 18-0. .thirteen! Right? Now here's the question Your name is Mumford, too.
MUMFORD: Is that the question?
SKIP: You moved here from back East and your name is the same as this town. Is that right? Far out.
SKIP: I hope you don't think I want you to do this for free. Just because we're gonna play it like we're friends, doesn't mean I won't pay you like a I understand.
MUMFORD: I understand.
SKIP: I have a lot of money. Do you know how much money I've got?
MUMFORD: Don't tell me, 'cause I'm not going to tell you what I've got.
SKIP: I've got three big ones.
MUMFORD: I'm impressed. I couldn't make three million dollars if I lived three No, no. I have three billion
SKIP: No, no. I have three billion
LIONEL: .so I'm watching Brokaw and they've got some astronomer, this little limey know-it-all, and he's telling how, with this Himball telescope, they've discovered there are maybe 400 million more galaxies than they thought there were. And I guess that's supposed to make me feel small? I'm supposed to feel insignificant? Is that the point? Because I can tell you it didn't.
MUMFORD: Lionel, since this is our first session together, maybe you'd like maybe it would be helpful if you told me a little about what brought you here.
MUMFORD: you can sit up and look at me if you'd like maybe it would be helpful if you told me a little about what brought you here.
LIONEL: Kind of impatient for a big-time headshrinker, aren't you? How 'bout you let me explain it my own way.
LIONEL: .and in the dream, it's always the same, I wake up in my room from when I was I kid in Ohio, and I realize this is the day of the big exam at
LIONEL: .which is no problem for me, because I remembered it was coming and I've attended every class, so I'm totally prepared. Then I see myself running down the hall at school.
LIONEL: you crazy? You can't do this!
MUMFORD: Sure I can, Lionel.
LIONEL: I'm a criminal lawyer you think I like my clients? I can't stand most of them! But I don't kick them out.
MUMFORD: See that sign We retain the right to refuse service to anyone. I'm not going to charge you for this session, but I don't want to see you back
LIONEL: Don't you at least have a back door I can use?
MUMFORD: Come out this way. There's no shame in getting a little therapy. is there, Althea? Not at all. It takes guts, Lionel.
ALTHEA: Not at all. It takes guts, Lionel.
LIONEL: Maybe some of us don't need this And it's the Hubble Telescope, not the Himball Telescope.
MUMFORD: And it's the Hubble Telescope, not the Himball Telescope.
MUMFORD: Jeez. what an asshole.
ALTHEA: What do they want from me? What have I done that's so wrong? They act as though they don't have their own peculiar things. They do! Believe me. Everybody's got Even you probably have things.
MUMFORD: Me more than most.
ALTHEA: Why are they ganging up against me?
MUMFORD: I'm not sure. But I think they're worried about you.
ALTHEA: It's the kids, you know, not Jeremy. He had nothing to do with this except pay, of course. He's always willing to pay. He's extremely I'm so humiliated that my own children would threaten me.
MUMFORD: How did they threaten you?
ALTHEA: They said if I didn't get help, they wouldn't deal with me any more. What do you think about that?
MUMFORD: Good kids.
ALTHEA: Mmmmfffstttubll abbittmm.
MUMFORD: Althea uses three new tissues to dry up her face.
ALTHEA: I said. you must come out to the house for dinner on Thursday.
MUMFORD: Really? You think so?
ALTHEA: Yes. Jeremy will be home for the weekend. And you can meet the kids.
MUMFORD: How ya doin', Ainge? Evenin', Lily.
LILY: ( doesn't look up )
COOK: Dr. Mumford.
MUMFORD: ( doesn't really know him ) Mr. Cook.
COOK: Could you come with me please?
COOK: I know I shoulda come to your office. I was gonna, actually, but then when you walked in here today.
MUMFORD: It's my daughter Sofie. she's gotta What's that?
COOK: It's my daughter Sofie. she's gotta What's that?
MUMFORD: What's that?
COOK: We're not sure. She's been to all kinds of doctors in the city and they've said different things. Some of 'em are callin' it Epstein-Barr virus, and the rest are callin' it. Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
MUMFORD: Syndrome. Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
COOK: That's it syndrome. So you know all about it?
MUMFORD: No. a little. There's a lot of debate about it.
COOK: Yeah, I got that. Some people think it's all in their heads. It's been so bad she's had to move back here to Mumford and live with us. And I'm not sure that's the best thing, either.
MUMFORD: Why's that?
COOK: Oh. a lot of things. Several different factors. Will you see her, Doctor Mumford?
MUMFORD: Sure. Why don't you bring her up to my office at 3 tomorrow afternoon.
COOK: I'm not sure she'll come. She's in a mood. Do you ever go to somebody's Generally that doesn't work out so well. It sends the wrong message to people who need to make a change.
MUMFORD: Generally that doesn't work out so well. It sends the wrong message to people who need to make a change.
MUMFORD: Hello, Lionel.
LIONEL: You've got to have the right ladder for the job. You don't know what you're doing, you can get yourself in trouble.
MUMFORD: You're right, as usual. See you.
SHEELER: Lionel is sitting across the room, making an ardent case
LIONEL: Whatever. Six months ago, you two were the only games in town. The value of your. ."practices" could be seriously undermined by this bozo. A town this size has only so many headcases to go around.
DELBANCO: What exactly would you have us do, Protect your turf! Check this guy out. I smell a rat, I tell you. Mr. Dillard, I'm sure Dr. Delbanco shares my gratitude for your concern. But I also know he'd agree that you misunderstand the nature of our calling to mental health. We're not in some. widget business, trying to crush our competition.
LIONEL: Protect your turf! Check this guy out. I smell a rat, I tell you. Mr. Dillard, I'm sure Dr. Delbanco shares my gratitude for your concern. But I also know he'd agree that you misunderstand the nature of our calling to mental health. We're not in some. widget business, trying to crush our competition.
SHEELER: Mr. Dillard, I'm sure Dr. Delbanco shares my gratitude for your concern. But I also know he'd agree that you misunderstand the nature of our calling to mental health. We're not in some. widget business, trying to crush our competition.
LIONEL: What the hell's a widget?
DELBANCO: What an asshole!
SHEELER: ( agrees ) Ernest, what do you think?
DELBANCO: I think he's got a point.
SKIP: This is great!
SKIP: This is exactly what I wanted.
MUMFORD: Skip, you must have lots of people you can throw a ball with.
SKIP: You'd be surprised. Most guys have kids or wives or girlfriends. They're busy. It's not as easy as you think.
MUMFORD: Skip, you're the head of the whole deal here. Are they busier than you?
SKIP: Well, you know. that's the thing. Like I said, just about everybody in town works for me. And it's just not the same asking someone to throw a ball when they work for you. It's like an order or something. And no one no one asks me.
MUMFORD: So, would you say we're out here. let me think how to put this. Is your problem really that you're. Don't you like this?
SKIP: Don't you like this?
MUMFORD: Hell yes, I like it. What's better than this? Most guys would kill just to have someone do this with them whenever they like.
SKIP: Okay then.
MUMFORD: ( "nope" ) Lily and I talk a bit. You know Lily, runs the coffee shop?
SKIP: No. I've seen her. Good-looking She's probably ten years older than Good-looking woman.
MUMFORD: ( agrees ) She's probably ten years older than ( SLAP. SLAP ) Good-looking woman.
SKIP: ( SLAP. SLAP ) Good-looking woman.
MUMFORD: Lives downstairs from me. She's got a great dog named for Danny Ainge.
SKIP: ( sparks to that ) Really? I'm the only person I know that likes Danny Ainge, outside of Celtic fans. Maybe Phoenix.
MUMFORD: Well, there's Lily.
SKIP: Did you know that Danny Ainge was drafted by the Blue Jays? Do you know what kind of athlete you have to be to play in the NBA and in the .And Lily named her dog after him? Far out.
MUMFORD: ( SLAP. SLAP ) .And Lily named her dog after him? Far out.
SKIP: ( SLAP. SLAP ) .And Lily named her dog after him? Far out.
MUMFORD: What kind of person do you have to be to do this?
SKIP: CUT TO:
MUMFORD: CUT TO:
SKIP: I would've traded any of it to have made the Mumford High varsity.
SKIP: So I guess Henry Follett is a patient of yours. He's my pharmacist.
MUMFORD: ( SLAP. SLAP ) Guy's got some serious sex fantasies.
MUMFORD: Pretty good, too. Lots of detail. Nothing hard core. Old-fashioned ones, from back when people cared about atmosphere and character.
SKIP: Problem is, his fantasy life's a lot better than his real one. Nothing can live up to it. His wife got sick of it and left him. Took his kids with her.
MUMFORD: Problem is, his fantasy life's a lot better than his real one. Nothing can live up to it. His wife got sick of it and left him. Took his kids with her.
SKIP: I wondered what happened to her.
MUMFORD: Of course, it's not that simple. There's something powerful going on there. We've got a lot of work to It's hit to the warning track! In these fantasies, Henry Follett is played by a handsome guy with biceps. Can you imagine that? Where your self-esteem has to be? Man, I'd just like to move the guy to the point where he gets to appear in his own fantasies.
MUMFORD: In these fantasies, Henry Follett is played by a handsome guy with biceps. Can you imagine that? Where your self-esteem has to be? Man, I'd just like to move the guy to the point where he gets to appear in his own fantasies.
MUMFORD: Feel free to lie down. Most people I'd better not, I'll fall right to sleep. I think it's too soon for me to be sleeping with you.
SOFIE: I'd better not, I'll fall right to sleep. I think it's too soon for me to be sleeping with you.
MUMFORD: What can you tell me about this?
SOFIE: Oh, lord. It's almost too exhausting to tell you. .about my exhaustion. I didn't really want to come. I'm not hopeful right now. But I couldn't take the look on my dad's face. He's a truly kind person, which is pretty extraordinary if you knew the story. He's the opposite of me, I guess all stamina and resolve.
MUMFORD: When did you start to feel this way?
SOFIE: About six months ago, I guess it is now. God, it seems like years. What a bore! I'm embarrassed by it. Before this happened when I'd hear people talk about this kind of thing I thought it was a bunch of bullshit.
MUMFORD: You think that now! You think it's a bunch of hooey, don't you?
SOFIE: You think that now! You think it's a bunch of hooey, don't you?
MUMFORD: ( unconvincing ) I saw it. I saw it in your eyes. That's okay. Maybe it is. My mother always says "Everything that's wrong with you is in your head." I suppose that's true.
SOFIE: I saw it. I saw it in your eyes. That's okay. Maybe it is. My mother always says "Everything that's wrong with you is in your head." I suppose that's true.
SOFIE: That's okay. Maybe it is. My mother always says "Everything that's wrong with you is in your head." I suppose that's true.
MUMFORD: Back when this started, was there anything unusual happening in your life? A change of job, of living situation. a loss of some kind?
SOFIE: No. but it started one year to the day after my divorce became final. That's not too suspicious, is it?. But it wasn't like I was feeling bad about the divorce. Just the opposite.
MUMFORD: Hmm? Is that a professional opinion?
SOFIE: Hmm? Is that a professional opinion?
MUMFORD: Hmm, as in that's interesting. Sometimes, with enough clues, it's possible to figure these things out.
SOFIE: Even if you don't think it's real?
MUMFORD: I don't know what's real and what isn't. That's never been my strong suit. But if you're tired all the time and you've had to give up the life you were having and come back home when you didn't want to. that's worth trying to fix. Maybe I can help you do that.
SOFIE: What would you do?
MUMFORD: We. we would try several things. But I need to see you a lot.
SOFIE: I don't know. I barely made it today.
MUMFORD: I'll come to you. We'll try a little
MUMFORD: We'll take it slow. You'll never feel you can't handle it.
SOFIE: I don't think I can afford it. I don't want my dad paying.
MUMFORD: We'll work it out.
SOFIE: You have the best answer for You seem so. hopeful. Are you always this sunny?
MUMFORD: No one ever thought so. You must bring it out.
SOFIE: Is it contagious? 'Cause everyone agrees my immune system's way down.
MUMFORD: Maybe you'll catch it.
SOFIE: Can I ask you something? Didn't you tell my dad you didn't think it was a good idea to come to the patient? So what changed?
ALTHEA: sorry everything's in such an uproar. Lots of big occasions coming up, and of course Christmas is only eight months away I don't know what's keeping Jeremy. You know he stays in the city three nights a week I guess I explained .I know Katie's here, but I'm not so sure about Martin. I'm making dinner myself tonight, so I'll have to leave you, I'm afraid.
ALTHEA: I'm awful I know, but will you please help yourself. I just got a new copper sauciere from Williams-Sonoma and I'm afraid it'll be the death of us all if I don't get back in there.
MUMFORD: You must be Katie. People call me C'mere. Quick. c'mon!
KATIE: ( motioning urgently ) C'mere. Quick. c'mon!
KATIE: Cuddledown. Linen & Scully. Smith & Hawken. Plow & Hearth. Museum of Modern Art. Smithsonian Museum. J. Crew. Wolferman's. Hold Everything. Nieman Marcus. Coldwater Creek. Garnett Hill. Norm Thompson. Victoria's Secret. Sharper Image. Hammacher Schlemmer.
MARTIN: Is this him?
KATIE: ( nods ) I showed him.
MARTIN: ( to Mumford ) Do you get it now? This is no joke. Hey, kids. Oh, hi.
JEREMY: Hey, kids. Oh, hi.
JEREMY: You must be Dr. Mumford of Mumford. Jeremy Brockett.
MUMFORD: Doc. Nice to meet you.
JEREMY: Sorry I'm late. traffic was a motherfucker. Have another drink, I'll be back in five.
ALTHEA: I'll be back.
JEREMY: I think you'll like this. Know much about Cuban cigars?
MUMFORD: Jeremy puts the cigars down, pulls a joint out of his cashmere pullover and fires it up. After exhaling a huge cloud of smoke, he offers the joint to Mumford, who declines.
JEREMY: Makes the whole thing that much
JEREMY: Just hold the flame a little bit below the end. that's it. now just turn it slowly as you draw.
JEREMY: Are you a man who likes to treat himself right?
MUMFORD: I've had my moments.
JEREMY: I am. And I'm not ashamed of it. Nobody ever said on their death bed "I treated myself too well."
MUMFORD: I thought it was Nobody ever said, "I should have spent more time at the office."
JEREMY: Fill in the blank. I don't mind the office. The point is, you only go 'round once. Like the Zens say Be here now.
MUMFORD: What do you do?
JEREMY: Althea hasn't told you?
MUMFORD: ( no ) We've been talking about her, mostly.
JEREMY: Well, in '85 four of us left our firms and formed an investment banking venture. We've got twenty-three people working there now.
MUMFORD: You've done well. We've done. very well. You know anything about addiction, Doc?
JEREMY: We've done. very well. You know anything about addiction, Doc?
MUMFORD: A little.
JEREMY: Well, I'm addicted to winning. I say when you're in the red zone, you gotta score. So what do you think?
MUMFORD: Tastes good.
JEREMY: No. I mean about Althea. About .behavior. Do you think you can fix her up?
MUMFORD: What do you think's wrong with her?
JEREMY: She's gone weird is what's wrong with her. Out of control. Probably from living out here in Mayberry.
JEREMY: You're the doctor, what do you think?
MUMFORD: She seems very unhappy.
JEREMY: I think we all knew that, professor. The question. the real quest-tio-nee. is. why?
MARTIN: But you know how to drive?
MUMFORD: Got a license? But no car?
MARTIN: Got a license? But no car?
MUMFORD: Don't need it.
MARTIN: I just got my license two weeks ago.
MUMFORD: You're good.
MARTIN: I been drivin' since I was twelve.
MUMFORD: That would explain it.
MARTIN: Can you help Mom?
MUMFORD: I'm trying.
MARTIN: ( intense ) Got to.
MARTIN: Nessa Watkins. She comes to you, doesn't she? You're treating her,
MARTIN: What's wrong with her?
MUMFORD: Is she a friend of yours?
MARTIN: No. sort of. Man, she could be cool, but all she does is get wrecked and do all the guys. She's blowin' them in the parking lot.
MARTIN: A person's got to hate themselves to act like that.
MARTIN: Have you ever met a bigger shithead than my stepfather?
LILY: That's okay. Jeremy won't mind. Good
MARTIN: That's okay. Jeremy won't mind. Good
LILY: The dog obediently leaves Martin and runs back to Lily. Mumford waves as Martin pulls away.
LILY: ( to Ainge ) Do we run into the street? No, I didn't think so. ( looks after Martin ) Nice car. How's that place?
MUMFORD: It's a pretty piece of land.
LILY: And the Brocketts?
MUMFORD: Horror show. What'd you do tonight?
LILY: It was insane here, man. 'Hadda call in the National Guard. Then I did my laundry. watched
MUMFORD: Shocking. Did you know the government is wasteful? You heard it here first. Oh, and being a supermodel. it's no walk in the park.
LILY: Shocking. Did you know the government is wasteful? You heard it here first. Oh, and being a supermodel. it's no walk in the park.
MUMFORD: Why do you watch?
LILY: No gentleman caller, Doc. Not that I care. I've had it with men. They're so fascinated by their own crap. Took me four years to get the last one out. Almost turned me into a dyke. These days my idea of a hot date is a long shower by myself before bed. Now that feels good. And you don't have to do all that.
LILY: Oops. sorry. I guess that's the story of your life.
SOFIE: I'm not making any promises.
MUMFORD: We'll turn back anytime you want.
SOFIE: ( seeing something ) Oh boy. this should be interesting.
SOFIE: Hello, Mother. I want you to meet Dr. Mumford.
MRS. COOK: Mumford. like the town?
MUMFORD: ( offering his hand ) Yes. It's nice to meet you, Mrs.
MRS. COOK: What's happening here?
SOFIE: We're going for a walk.
MRS. COOK: Do you think that's a good idea?
SOFIE: Dr. Mumford does, yes. I've put myself completely in his hands. For today, What kind of doctor are you?
MRS. COOK: What kind of doctor are you?
MUMFORD: Ph.D., psychologist.
MRS. COOK: Oh. not a real doctor.
MUMFORD: That's right, the fake kind.
SOFIE: We'd better go or I'm liable to bail on the whole thing.
SOFIE: Mom's such a cutie.
MUMFORD: People usually have to get to know me before they hate me.
SOFIE: She's not in a bad mood. She's like that all the time. It doesn't bother me anymore. It's my dad and my brother I worry about.
MUMFORD: Maybe. but you're the one whose ass is dragging.
SOFIE: ( laughs ) Is that the technical description of what I've got?
MUMFORD: Is she against you getting help?
SOFIE: We don't discuss it.
MUMFORD: Something's bothering her.
SOFIE: Oh, we've all disappointed her. Me, especially, but Dad, of course. She thinks my brother's all right, but she didn't expect much. It's what happens when you "marry beneath
MUMFORD: Please. forgive me.
SOFIE: Negative thinking makes everything more difficult. If you're going to have enough strength to do this, we have to talk only about positive things. All right?
MUMFORD: Negative thinking makes everything more difficult. If you're going to have enough strength to do this, we have to talk only about positive things. All right?
MUMFORD: Okay then. Are you positive your mother's a bitch? Just kidding.
SOFIE: You've got a funny idea of funny.
MUMFORD: ( seems worried ) I've offended you!
SOFIE: Really? What would it take?
MUMFORD: Really? What would it take?
SOFIE: Is this the treatment?
MUMFORD: Sorry. I'm done.
SOFIE: 'Cause I'll tell you, none of the others have tried this approach.
SOFIE: ( absurdly unconvincing ) Hey, 'Just do it!'
SOFIE: I'm embarrassed. The list is so long.
MUMFORD: Be specific.
SOFIE: Well. I'm tired all the time, obviously. I always feel like taking a nap. But when I try to sleep, I have trouble. My muscles ache. And my joints. I feel like an old person, or like I did back when I used to work out too hard. What else?.
MUMFORD: Painful lymph glands? Forget fulness. irritability. Yes, yes, and definitely yes. Also. I get confused.
SOFIE: Yes, yes, and definitely yes. Also. I get confused.
MUMFORD: Yeah, most people have that. It's confusing here.
SOFIE: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC FIELD - DAY ANOTHER DAY. Mumford is leading Sofie through the lightest set of calisthenics ever devised. Now they're doing waist bends and arm waving. Even so, it's taking everything Sofie's
MUMFORD: EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC FIELD - DAY ANOTHER DAY. Mumford is leading Sofie through the lightest set of calisthenics ever devised. Now they're doing waist bends and arm waving. Even so, it's taking everything Sofie's
SOFIE: I don't know if I mentioned the Did you get headaches before this? But you get more now? Or more severe?
MUMFORD: Did you get headaches before this? But you get more now? Or more severe?
SOFIE: No, not really. They're about the same. My marriage was one long So the headaches may not even be a part of this?
MUMFORD: So the headaches may not even be a part of this?
MUMFORD: I can give myself a headache Is that like a party trick?
SOFIE: Is that like a party trick?
MUMFORD: All I have to do is have two conflicting thoughts at the same time. Like I'll think 'Taking these walks is going to help Sofie get better.' But then I'll also think 'Mumford, you just enjoy taking these walks and you're kidding yourself about the benefits.'
MUMFORD: There. I've given myself a real You actually address yourself by name in your thoughts? So you really think having two opposing ideas in your head does some kind of damage?
SOFIE: You actually address yourself by name in your thoughts? So you really think having two opposing ideas in your head does some kind of damage?
MUMFORD: Sometimes, yeah. pulling in two different directions at once. It makes tiny little tears in our fabric.
SOFIE: Well then, my life has been some kind of huge rip.
LANDLADY'S DAUGHTER: .get off my case! You don't like any of my friends.
FOLLETT: Stop now.
MUMFORD: Stop now.
FOLLETT: Why? I'm paying for this.
MUMFORD: Not for this. Not me, you're not.
FOLLETT: ( challenging ) You find it distasteful, don't you?
MUMFORD: It doesn't matter how I feel about it. It's how you feel about it that I enjoy it. Does that make me some kind of pervert? Just because a man has a rich imaginative life
FOLLETT: I enjoy it. Does that make me some kind of pervert? Just because a man has a rich imaginative life
MUMFORD: You didn't come to me because you have a rich imagination.
FOLLETT: You came because it's taking over. You're in its grip.
MUMFORD: You came because it's taking over. You're in its grip.
FOLLETT: I never said that.
MUMFORD: Where's your wife, Henry?
MUMFORD: Where's your wife, Henry?
FOLLETT: Go to hell.
MUMFORD: ( softer ) I didn't hear you.
FOLLETT: We got divorced. I had to get rid of her. She couldn't satisfy me.
MUMFORD: ( shouts, Follett jumps )
FOLLETT: ( softly ) I was. never satisfied.
MUMFORD: ( normal again ) Now we're back on track.
MUMFORD: What's that?
FOLLETT: ( long beat ) You are so mean.
MUMFORD: Hey, Skip.
SKIP: Doc. I know we're not supposed to get together till Wednesday.
MUMFORD: That's all right. What's on your
SKIP: How many sessions have we had now, Six. And it's been good. like we were two buddies hanging out. Just shootin' the shit.
MUMFORD: They walk in silence for a while.
SKIP: This is really hard. Everything I want to say is hard.
SKIP: .We're like friends, almost. who trust each other.
SKIP: I want to tell you something, Doc, but before I do, I need to ask you a question. Because, for me to tell you this thing well, I haven't told anybody about this. It's the biggest secret I've got.
MUMFORD: Sometimes it's best to keep a few things just for ourselves.
SKIP: You're a shrink, Doc. Aren't I supposed to be able to tell you It's just a thought.
MUMFORD: It's just a thought.
SKIP: That really relates to the thing I want to ask you. I've noticed that sometimes, not a lot, but sometimes, when we're hanging out, throwin' the ball. or that time we went bowling. sometimes you'll like tell me things about your other
SKIP: Hey, maybe that's all right! I don't know all that much about psychology or therapy or. ethics, so maybe there's something I missed. or You're concerned that maybe I can't be trusted with a secret.
MUMFORD: You're concerned that maybe I can't be trusted with a secret.
SKIP: I trust you. Definitely. No question. But, yeah, I'm a little concerned. I mean, you're not supposed to tell anyone about your patients' problems. are you?
MUMFORD: That is correct, Skip. I'm going to have to take a long look at that.
SKIP: Yeah, well. what I was gonna tell Doc, I trust you! You've listened to me better than anybody. maybe ever. And this secret I've got, I can't stand it anymore. I don't know if I'm some kind of
MUMFORD: Skip. Knowing what you do about Doc, I trust you! You've listened to me better than anybody. maybe ever. And this secret I've got, I can't stand it anymore. I don't know if I'm some kind of
SKIP: Doc, I trust you! You've listened to me better than anybody. maybe ever. And this secret I've got, I can't stand it anymore. I don't know if I'm some kind of
SKIP: I don't know if I'm a pervert or what. It's taken me this long to get where I can come out and say it. I can't back away now. I can't spend another day not knowing if I'm nuts.
SKIP: All right, I'm just gonna tell you, as simple and direct as I can. And you understand that this is a big secret? Just between us? Okay. You know I've got this gift for certain kinds of. machines.
MUMFORD: You are Panda, monarch of modems.
SKIP: That's right. And you also know that even though I make 23% of the modems in the world. I cannot make one simple connection with any woman who could truly love me.
MUMFORD: Okay. let's say that, for now.
SKIP: It's true, believe me. So. do you know what I've been doing, all alone, in my workshop, for almost two years?. Mr. Find-the-Need-and-Fill- It. How I spend my every solitary
SKIP: ( Mumford demurs ) Go ahead, guess!
MUMFORD: ( if he must ) Jerking off?
SKIP: No!. Although that's a good guess. No, what I've been working on, what the world really needs and no one has been able to create a virtually life-like, humanoid, gender-specific, anatomically functional. sexual surrogate slash
MUMFORD: Slash what?
SKIP: Sexual surrogate. slash. A doll?
MUMFORD: A doll?
SKIP: No, Doc, not a doll. I am Panda. I'm talking about much, much more than a doll. The world has never seen what I'm talking about. except maybe in the movies.
MUMFORD: How's it coming?
SKIP: You don't think I'm insane?
MUMFORD: ( "no" ) And that's your secret? ( Skip: "yes" ) You meant like a trade secret?
SKIP: No, Doc, a private secret! It's perverted, it's pitiful. What am I Dr. Frankenstein? Aren't you repulsed?
MUMFORD: Sounds like kind of a good idea.
SKIP: ( nonplussed )
MUMFORD: It's getting dark fast now. Mumford reaches into his bag and takes out the headlamp we saw earlier. He fits the straps carefully over his head.
MUMFORD: Skip, that's not much of a secret.
SKIP: ( hurt ) It's not?
MUMFORD: Oh, it's okay. It's just not something to be ashamed of. Maybe you don't want people knowing and believe me, it's safe with me but on the scale of dirty little secrets, I'd give it, say. a two.
MUMFORD: You want to know a secret? I'll tell you a secret. Since it's just between us and all.
MUMFORD: The secret, Skip, is this I am not now, nor have I ever been. a We'd better get going. Just follow my light. And, Skip, watch your step.
MUMFORD: We'd better get going. Just follow my light. And, Skip, watch your step.
SKIP: Who else knows?
MUMFORD: Just you.
SKIP: It's time you did some talkin', Dr. Mum Wait a minute. That is your name, isn't it?
SKIP: Damn! What is your name?
MUMFORD: Doesn't matter. You can call me Doc.
SKIP: It matters to me.
SKIP: I've told you a lot of private stuff.
MUMFORD: I can tell you anything else.
SKIP: What about everything? How did this
MUMFORD: Did you know that every species of mammal has found some way to drug, inebriate, or anestnetize itself? Even if it's just banging its head against a rock. Seems to be some natural urge. to get away for a I've had it for as long as I can remember. The first place I wanted out of was home.
MAGIC: MOVING FAST ( MUMFORD'S CHILDHOOD POV ) toward the back door of a rundown, little house in a poor mining community. We reach the back door and bang inside
MUMFORD: .pizza delivery, pipe fitting, pest control. lots of jobs that started with the letter "p". For some reason, I kept losing these The only mind-altering substance I never had a problem with was alcohol. I never got drunk. I didn't like the feeling. But really, when you're as fucked up as I was. big deal.
MUMFORD: Eventually, doing all these different jobs, I noticed something. For some reason, probably because I was too stoned to talk, everywhere I went
SKIP: an investigator for the Internal Revenue Service?
MUMFORD: Everybody has a story, Skip.
SKIP: Sounds like you have several.
MUMFORD: What it felt like was. a series of separate, unconnected lives hillbilly kid, wrecked college boy, garbage man, civil service guy. .et cetera. et cetera. Every time I'd leave a life, it felt good. Whatever problems I was having were suddenly gone. I had no friends and I didn't talk to my family. The only constant, stabilizing force in my life was. drugs.
SKIP: An IRS investigator with a drug It wasn't the best situation.
MUMFORD: It wasn't the best situation.
SKIP: Did you carry a gun?
MUMFORD: Didn't need one. We didn't even need a warrant for most of the shit we did. Man, the IRS. we could go in your bank account, your credit cards. hell, we used to go into doctors' files and get all the juicy details. Nobody wants to argue with the IRS.
MUMFORD: ( announcer-like ) "Get to know your therapist."
SKIP: You were messed up, man.
MUMFORD: ( dry ) But look at me now.
SKIP: Hey, you've done good. Look at yourself. you've cleaned up, you've got a career
SKIP: At least you pulled yourself out.
MUMFORD: Things got a lot worse.
SKIP: You and Candy.?
GORBECK, C.P.A.": MUMFORD ( V.O. )
SKIP: And so you did.
SKIP: And the drugs?
MUMFORD: Harder than I thought. Took me three tries. But I was highly motivated figured there was no point in leaving me and taking that along. After two bomb-outs, I found a place in the The joint wasn't fancy it was run by an order of monks but it worked. When I got out of there, I was just about broke.
MUMFORD: .which seemed perfect for starting something new. Be back.
SKIP: Somebody's taking a shower down there.
MUMFORD: That'd be Lily.
SKIP: I wish I could live in the shower. I'd take five a day if I had the time. I went to this spa in Germany, a sanitarium practically, up on this mountain. And the great thing they just kept you wet all day.
MUMFORD: Who'd you go with? That's not good.
SKIP: How'd you do it? The new you.
MUMFORD: You know how easy it is. A kid can manage it if he wants a fake I.D. You can do practically the whole deal at your local Kinko's. The only variable is how much pride you take in the product.
SKIP: I know it starts with a birth All new people start with that.
MUMFORD: All new people start with that.
MUMFORD: What about it?
SKIP: "Mumford". I mean, why pick the name of the town you were going to?
MUMFORD: Oh. You got it backwards. I already had the name when I started looking for somewhere to settle. When I saw this town on a map, I thought maybe it was a sign. See.
MUMFORD: In a free society, you are who you say you are. People should remember that before they go around knocking this country. Skip, all this beer's got me sleepy.
SKIP: But you studied psychology, right? You did the training and just never got the degree?
MUMFORD: No. no training.
SKIP: ( hopeful ) Psych major?
MUMFORD: English Lit.
SKIP: Jeez, man. But you're good at it!
MUMFORD: I understand what it's like to want to leave a problem behind. That's all most people are looking to do. Mainly, I listen.
SKIP: Where ya going? I've got a million See you Thursday. regular time.
MUMFORD: See you Thursday. regular time.
SOFIE: .so we get on this incredible steam engine train that runs up into the .and this trip is everything it's cracked up to be. an open car, great views, the mountain air blowing through. We're sitting there, married for six years, and he says how he likes it better when I put my hair
SOFIE: That wasn't so good.
MUMFORD: You're doing great.
SOFIE: I don't know if I'm going to make it the whole way.
MUMFORD: It doesn't matter. Go on.
SOFIE: Oh. this makes me sound irrational, which is probably right, but there was something about him saying this it was maybe the millionth time he'd told me about some preference of his. Well, I was so. tired of it. Seems like my whole life someone's been telling me. I'm just not getting it right. Can we rest for a
SOFIE: You're purposely making me talk while we do this. .because you think this is good for me. .and you're a sadistic bastard.
MUMFORD: .who thinks there's nothing really wrong with me.
SOFIE: .who thinks there's nothing really wrong with me.
MUMFORD: Oh, there's something wrong with you, all right. Especially after hearing that dream of yours, about the Roto-Rooter.
SOFIE: That was really bad, wasn't it?
MUMFORD: And I'll bet you can interpret the whole thing
SOFIE: And I'll bet you can interpret the whole thing
MUMFORD: It's pretty obvious to a trained
SOFIE: I hate those dreams where everything means something.
MUMFORD: Is that when you split up?
SOFIE: No, that'd be a good story, but that was just the beginning of the end. We went on for another year or so.
SOFIE: So whose route is this?
MUMFORD: Brady Peck's. Fourteen years old. Lives next door.
SOFIE: And he's where?
MUMFORD: In the capitol for Boy's Nation. Five days. Why?
SOFIE: ( heaves another paper ) I'm thinking a gal could make a good living doing this. How hard could it be squeezing out some fourteen year You like it?
MUMFORD: You like it?
SOFIE: It's all right.
MUMFORD: Then you can expect me at 5:30 tomorrow morning.
SOFIE: And this is legitimate therapy?
MUMFORD: Therapy? Hell no, I just don't want to do it alone.
NESSA: What are you doing? We're not done. I just need to find the thing.
MUMFORD: If you don't want to have a session today, it's okay.
NESSA: I want to have the session. I thought it would be cool if I could show you some of the things that interest me. But I guess you're not into it. which we already knew.
MUMFORD: What happened today?
NESSA: What are you talking about?
MUMFORD: Was it something that happened at These appointments were not my idea, True. Should we stop them?
NESSA: ( petulant ) These appointments were not my idea, True. Should we stop them?
MUMFORD: True. Should we stop them?
NESSA: I don't think you know what you're talking about.
MUMFORD: This shrink school you went to. did you hear about it on an
NESSA: This shrink school you went to. did you hear about it on an
NESSA: I want to live in the world these people are in. No one ever says anything in there, have you noticed? So they're very cool. Like they're all really deep. It's when people start talking that everything goes to shit.
NESSA: There's this kid at school. Martin Brockett. He has some gigantic idea of himself that no one else shares. You wouldn't believe the crap he lays on me. Who appointed him my spiritual leader? If he has everything so figured out how come his best friend is a .22 rifle? And why's he spend all his time chasing after me? Probably thinks I'm gonna give him a Do you think that's what he wants?
MUMFORD: Do you think that's what he wants?
NESSA: ( after a beat ) No. I don't know what he wants. But I know I don't like being watched. Nobody's ever paid any attention to what I did, and I liked it just fine. Where does he get off telling me I disrespect myself? ( a beat ) Fuck him. Look in a mirror, bozo.
MUMFORD: What's the deal? They come through a few times each Hello, Mrs. Saito, good to see you It's a tour.
LILY: They come through a few times each Hello, Mrs. Saito, good to see you It's a tour.
MUMFORD: Where am I supposed to eat?
LILY: You're on your own today, honey. Hey, Skip!
SKIP: Skip notices the tour members filing by, but is immediately distracted by the presence of Lily, who's a little excited to meet the local celebrity.
MUMFORD: Lily, I want you to meet Skip. Skip, It's a pleasure to meet you.
LILY: It's a pleasure to meet you.
SKIP: ( flustered ) Yeah. me you, too. I was at your Upstairs, with Doc. Yeah, it's very nice. I heard your shower.
LILY: Upstairs, with Doc. Yeah, it's very nice. I heard your shower.
SKIP: Upstairs, with Doc. Yeah, it's very nice. I heard your shower.
LILY: I've seen you going by on your board, but I didn't realize you're so young. to be so.
SKIP: .so rich?
MUMFORD: .so rich?
LILY: ( gives him a look ) .so accomplished.
SKIP: I may be young, but Doc can tell you, I'm very immature.
SKIP: So, is this like a Japanese I'd better get in there.
LILY: I'd better get in there.
SKIP: That's a lot of people all at once.
LILY: It's okay. They pre-order. There's a choice of three entrees.
SKIP: What are they?
LILY: Meat loaf, turkey quesadillas, or salad nicoise.
SKIP: Salad nicoise? I love salad nicoise.
LILY: ( giggling ) You do?
SKIP: Well, come on in.
LILY: Well, come on in.
MUMFORD: Dr. Delbanco. It's nice to see you I don't think you know Dr. Sheeler. She's the other therapist here in Of course. I've heard great things about you.
DELBANCO: I don't think you know Dr. Sheeler. She's the other therapist here in Of course. I've heard great things about you.
MUMFORD: ( shaking her hand ) Of course. I've heard great things about you.
SHEELER: Thank you.
DELBANCO: You never got back to me. .I called to say we'd like to take you out for a meal?. Kind of a professional welcome.
MUMFORD: Forgive me, please. What a gracious thought. We must do that.
SHEELER: Why don't I call you when I've got my calendar in front of me?
MUMFORD: Why don't I call you when I've got my calendar in front of me?
DELBANCO: What are you doing for lunch?
MUMFORD: Right now?
DELBANCO: .annihilation anxieties engendered by bad experiences with a depriving mother. but no one can escape the fear of death. It is, as Henry James put it, "the worm at the core." Try as we may to forget or ignore our mortality, James said "the skull will grin in at the
DELBANCO: I've run on. Forgive me. We're here to talk about you.
MUMFORD: Are we?
SHEELER: ( covering ) What Ernest means, I think, is we're very interested in other methodology. different kinds of training. We're great believers in learning from each other. I've learned so much from Ern Dr. Delbanco.
DELBANCO: .And I from Phyllis.
SHEELER: ( back to a previous thread ) So. the University of Kentucky. Who runs the program down there?
MUMFORD: My mentor was an amazing teacher named Benton Mandlebaum. Died quite tragically in the collapse of a I think I've heard of him. a disciple of Rothberg, wasn't he?
DELBANCO: I think I've heard of him. a disciple of Rothberg, wasn't he?
MUMFORD: It's possible. I don't know about I suppose your extended training was at an institution in that area?
SHEELER: I suppose your extended training was at an institution in that area?
MUMFORD: Lots of institutions. My graduate advisor believed we should experience as many environments as possible prisons, clinics, half-way houses. For a while I was chief therapist in a shopping mall. Had a little spot next to the yogurt place.
DELBANCO: Interesting approach. What was his Dorothy Fowler. Fantastic woman. She passed last year in a train wreck. Damned Amtrak.
MUMFORD: Dorothy Fowler. Fantastic woman. She passed last year in a train wreck. Damned Amtrak.
SHEELER: I trained in the east, myself Cornell and I don't care what anyone says, there really are regional differences. I found the state certification exams out here quite harrowing. Did you?
MUMFORD: Oh, yeah, very tough. But I guess that's good. to keep out the quacks.
SHEELER: Which examiner did you have? I probably know him.
MUMFORD: Wallace Franklin. from Greensburg.
SHEELER: That was a terrible thing.
MUMFORD: ( agrees ) I don't even know why hang-gliding is considered a legitimate sport.
DELBANCO: ( back on track ) We're interested in any new therapies. How would you characterize your My approach?
MUMFORD: My approach?
SHEELER: Yes. your particular approach.
MUMFORD: I don't have one really. Most of the time I'm faking it. See, I think there's not much that can be done about most problems. they're too complicated, too deep-rooted by the time I hear about them. The most I can do, usually, is look and listen real closely, try to catch some glimpse of the secret life everybody's got. If I can get a sense of that, well then, maybe. just maybe, I can help them out a little.
DELBANCO: I see.
ALTHEA: The argument had nothing to do with it.
ALTHEA: ( hates to say ) I had ordered some books. "The 100 Greatest Books Ever Written."
ALTHEA: Oh, all the great writers Shakespeare, Charles Dickens, Moby Dick. those people. Each is bound in genuine premium leather with 22 carat gold accents. It's a magnificent set and only $33.50 per volume. Right away you get Great Expectations for just $6.99.
ALTHEA: It's irrelevant. It had nothing to do with what happened.
ALTHEA: We argued on Sunday. He went to work on Monday and stayed in the city during the week, like always. But on Thursday, when he normally comes home, he didn't. Didn't call either. Not till Saturday afternoon.
MUMFORD: You must have been concerned.
ALTHEA: It's happened before. I'm shocked by how little I'm feeling. I can't understand it. I'll probably have a complete depressoid collapse soon, won't I?
MUMFORD: Doubtful. What did he say?
ALTHEA: He said he wasn't coming back. He said it wasn't working for him any more. That it hadn't "worked for him" for quite a while. You know what I regret the most? I'm sorry I let him make the kids take his name. He was an acquirer. He liked to acquire things.
ALTHEA: You think that has something to do with my problem? Ordering all those .Like I was on some kind of campaign to out-acquire him. .If I was just an acquisition to him, and he lost interest once he had me
ALTHEA: .Like I was on some kind of campaign to out-acquire him. .If I was just an acquisition to him, and he lost interest once he had me
ALTHEA: That can't be it. It's too simple. And besides, I still like it. This morning I ordered a marble turtle cheese board from The Horchow Can I tell you something just awful? You know how people who are just assholes will sometimes look at a woman who's got problems and say, "What she needs is a good shtupping!"?
ALTHEA: Well, there may be something to that. Jeremy didn't keep up his end Oh, what difference does it make? Why do I feel elated? Am I in denial? You know what it feels like?.
ALTHEA: I know my time's up, but I've got to get this out while I've got hold of Take your time.
MUMFORD: Take your time.
ALTHEA: ( no slowing down ) When I was in high school, the thing I wanted most, when I was stuck in class, the thing I was always desperately in pursuit of was a hall pass. That's all I wanted. I loved moving freely around the school while everybody else was trapped in there. And that's how I feel right now. Like I have some giant, all- day hall pass.
ALTHEA: My god, did it just get hot in here or what?
ALTHEA: See you next time. I'll probably be a basket case by then.
MUMFORD: You can go out there if you like.
ALTHEA: ( quoting Mumford ) "There's no shame in getting a little therapy", right, Doc?
ALTHEA: Hello, Mr. Follett. Have a good session. Bye, Doc.
MUMFORD: But Follett continues to stare in the direction Althea has INT. LOBBY ATRIUM, PANDA MODEM WORLD HEADQUARTERS - DAY Mumford is being escorted across the spectacular atrium by a PANDA SECURITY AIDE. Her informal uniform, and all the other details in the building, carry out the Panda design motif. As they head down the main corridor
SKIP: Thanks, Jennifer, I'll take him from
SKIP: I've never brought anyone down here I'm honored.
MUMFORD: I'm honored.
SKIP: Doc, there's something about what you told me the other night I can't get out of my head. It's driving me Why me? How did you know you could trust me?
MUMFORD: You're completely reliable.
SKIP: It's just me, Dino!
MUMFORD: Skip, I've got a problem and I need some advice.
SKIP: You want my advice? Far out!
SKIP: I hope nothing you're about to see will shake your faith in me.
SKIP: Pretty creepy, huh? Are you totally Skip, you're a visionary. That can be a burden.
MUMFORD: ( "no" ) Skip, you're a visionary. That can be a burden.
SKIP: This doesn't seem a little. There are a lot of lonely people in the world. Somebody's gonna figure this out someday.
MUMFORD: There are a lot of lonely people in the world. Somebody's gonna figure this out someday.
SKIP: It's not going to be me. I'm giving it up.
MUMFORD: It's all your fault. In the last 48 hours, I've completely lost interest.
SKIP: It's all your fault. In the last 48 hours, I've completely lost interest.
MUMFORD: What'd I do?
SKIP: ( gets it ) .Skip, that's great! You and Lily.
MUMFORD: ( gets it ) .Skip, that's great! You and Lily.
SKIP: Oh, she doesn't know about it yet. Right now, of the two of us, I'm the only one in love. But I'm very stoked.
SKIP: Doc, how I can be of help to you?
SKIP: Skip gets the pelvis switched off and turns back to Mumford.
MUMFORD: Skip gets the pelvis switched off and turns back to Mumford.
SKIP: I'm here for you, Doc.
MUMFORD: Skip, you know that it's improper completely unethical for a licensed psychologist to carry on a romantic relationship with one of his patients?
SKIP: I guess that makes sense.
MUMFORD: Yes, yes it does.
SKIP: You've fallen in love with one of your patients?
SKIP: Doc!. It's not me, is it?
MUMFORD: Mumford understands and can't stop a laugh.
MUMFORD: No, Skip, it's not you. But I like you a lot.
SKIP: Doc, what about this? You're not really a licensed psychologist!
SKIP: Hmm. I guess that doesn't help. I see where you're going here. It's a
MUMFORD: INT. DR. DELBANCO'S OFFICE - DAY Lionel is here with Delbanco and Sheeler. This time, Delbanco is behind his desk, Sheeler across the room on the sofa.
LIONEL: Don't you find it incredibly convenient that everyone who could possibly corroborate his story has recently died some exotic death?
DELBANCO: They're neither all recent nor exotic.
SHEELER: But they're certainly dead. And yes, personally, I find it a bit odd.
DELBANCO: It could happen. What about his state certification exams? The records seem to be in order.
LIONEL: What's easier than hacking your way into a state computer and inserting some numbers? For all you know he never even took the exams!
SHEELER: That's true.
DELBANCO: I don't know that it's all that Doctor, correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounds to me like you've gone for this guy's story hook, line and bull- You do seem much more disposed toward him than I understand, Ernest. Did I miss something?
LIONEL: Doctor, correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounds to me like you've gone for this guy's story hook, line and bull- You do seem much more disposed toward him than I understand, Ernest. Did I miss something?
SHEELER: You do seem much more disposed toward him than I understand, Ernest. Did I miss something?
DELBANCO: ( sharply ) Oh, for god's sake, Phyllis we have no reason to doubt the man! Are we listening to Lionel now?
DELBANCO: Phyllis, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to No, Dr. Delbanco, it is I who am sorry. Sorry to have wasted your time with such.
SHEELER: No, Dr. Delbanco, it is I who am sorry. Sorry to have wasted your time with such.
LILY: Stop it! He's a kid. I'm old enough to be his. older sister.
COOK: Dr. Mumford. Please, come in.
MUMFORD: Hello, Mr. Cook. I was wondering if Sofie was around?
COOK: Were you supposed to have a session?
MUMFORD: No. It's sort of spur of the moment.
COOK: Look who's here. Have you met Sofie's
MRS. COOK: We've met.
COOK: And our son, Ben.
BEN: ( vigorously shakes hands ) This is a real honor, Doctor. Have a seat, will ya?
MUMFORD: Well, actually, I can't really. Do you think I could see Sofie?
BEN: I insist! I've been wanting to meet
MRS. COOK: ( icy ) Sofie's not here.
COOK: Her friend from the city came and took her out to dinner. First time in a long time she's been willing.
MUMFORD: A friend?
BEN: We owe that to you. She's perked up a lot since you started treating
MRS. COOK: What'd you want?
MUMFORD: There's something I think we need to talk about.
MRS. COOK: MR. COOK MRS. COOK
MR. COOK: MRS. COOK
MRS. COOK: I think we have a right.
BEN: We certainly do not.
MRS. COOK: Keep it zipped, Ben.
MR. COOK: Is there something we need to know, Dr. Mumford?
MUMFORD: Well. yes, I guess I should tell you. I don't think I'm going to be able to treat Sofie anymore.
MRS. COOK: Finally, some common sense.
MUMFORD: What do you mean?
MRS. COOK: I think you know what I mean.
MUMFORD: No, I really don't.
MRS. COOK: I think you do.
MUMFORD: Why don't you tell me?
MRS. COOK: ( very calm ) Why don't you go to hell? It's all a bunch of nonsense and you know it.
MR. COOK: Elizabeth, I'm tellin' you, stop You're telling me? That's rich.
MRS. COOK: ( dismissive ) You're telling me? That's rich.
MUMFORD: ( standing up ) I'd better go.
BEN: Why can't you see Sofie? I know the treatment's working.
MUMFORD: Well. you see, the problem is
MRS. COOK: the problem is you're a big fake. You haven't got a clue what's wrong with that girl.
MUMFORD: Wow. You're something.
MRS. COOK: Take a hike, Dr. Quack!
MR. COOK: ( ignoring her now ) What is the problem, Doctor?
MUMFORD: Problem? I guess there is no problem. Uh, this friend of Sofie's, where'd he take her?
BEN: It's she Roxy. Used to work with her. I think they went over to The Oh, Roxy! Excellent. Roxy.
MUMFORD: ( delighted ) Oh, Roxy! Excellent. Roxy.
FOLLETT: What is it?
MUMFORD: It's a thought I had.
FOLLETT: Should I open it now?
MUMFORD: Let me just say something here. I have no idea if this is going to What exactly is it supposed to do?
FOLLETT: What exactly is it supposed to do?
MUMFORD: You remember when I asked you about gynecology and minimum turn-on
FOLLETT: I find it degrading. Maximum gynecology and minimum turn-on
MUMFORD: and you told me that. Still, there's some kind of imagery that's haunting you and, I think, getting in your way
FOLLETT: Which I don't necessarily agree.
MUMFORD: But you did come to me.
MUMFORD: My guess is these images were burned into your brain when you were young. Maybe if we could nail down the exact fantasies that are haunting you maybe you could get past them. Anyway, I thought we could try an And the experiment is in here?
FOLLETT: ( indicating the box ) And the experiment is in here?
MUMFORD: You know what? I think this was a dumb idea.
MUMFORD: .I just heard myself talking and I realize I'm completely unqualified to be doing this. Let's forget the whole thing.
FOLLETT: Whoa, whoa, what are you doing? I want to know what's in here.
MUMFORD: ( pulling on the box ) There's absolutely no reason to think this is going to have any impact on you. I'm embarrassed to have Hey! I agree with you that you don't know what you're talking about. That's what I've been saying all along. And I can guarantee you that looking at the Lost Ark or whatever you got in here is not going to mean diddly to ( quieting down ) .but if you think I'm going to let you walk out of here without seeing what's in this box, you don't know much about Henry A. Follett.
FOLLETT: Hey! I agree with you that you don't know what you're talking about. That's what I've been saying all along. And I can guarantee you that looking at the Lost Ark or whatever you got in here is not going to mean diddly to .but if you think I'm going to let you walk out of here without seeing what's in this box, you don't know much about Henry A. Follett.
FOLLETT: What?! What the hell is so important I can't have five minutes ? It's her, sir. You told me to get you when she came to pick up her Uh, sorry, I'm going to have to. .I really appreciate what you're trying to. uh, I can't thank you enough for.
YOUNG PHARMACIST: It's her, sir. You told me to get you when she came to pick up her Uh, sorry, I'm going to have to. .I really appreciate what you're trying to. uh, I can't thank you enough for.
FOLLETT: Uh, sorry, I'm going to have to. .I really appreciate what you're trying to. uh, I can't thank you enough for.
MUMFORD: My pleasure.
FOLLETT: I'll see you on. whatever.
SOFIE: When I was in high school we used to come up here and make out. I liked to sit on the rock and watch the sun go down.
MUMFORD: That's what I like.
SOFIE: Which thing?
MUMFORD: Either one.
SOFIE: Why'd you come to the house the other I thought I had something to tell you. But it turned out I didn't.
MUMFORD: I thought I had something to tell you. But it turned out I didn't.
SOFIE: My brother said you were about to fire me.
MUMFORD: That's one way to put it.
SOFIE: I bet I know what changed your mind. .My mother. She was so horrible, you decided you couldn't desert me.
MUMFORD: I thought only action movies had villains like that.
SOFIE: That's the cut-off, isn't it? I know why you were going to quit seeing me. You feel like a fake, an imposter.
SOFIE: You feel like a fake, an imposter.
SOFIE: .as if maybe you don't know what you're doing.
SOFIE: Everybody feels that way sometimes. like we're not who we're supposed to be. But I have to tell you, Dr.
SOFIE: you've been a tremendous help to I can't tell you how much I admire you. You have a wonderful way with people. And you're very insightful. I feel like you've seen me clearly. I never used to admit what a horrible person my mother was. You've made that possible for me.
MUMFORD: I can't tell you how much I admire you. You have a wonderful way with people. And you're very insightful. I feel like you've seen me clearly. I never used to admit what a horrible person my mother was. You've made that possible for me.
SOFIE: I can't tell you how much I admire you. You have a wonderful way with people. And you're very insightful. I feel like you've seen me clearly. I never used to admit what a horrible person my mother was. You've made that possible for me.
MUMFORD: That's. good?
SOFIE: Yes! And my ex-husband he never accepted me for who I was, just like Mother. The things you've said have helped me understand what a dick he I don't know if
MUMFORD: I don't know if
SOFIE: You're shockingly honest, that's what makes you great. I've never had a man treat me this way. With you, I feel really. listened to. Can I tell you something? It's a little embarrassing, but I feel very unguarded with you.
MUMFORD: Of course.
SOFIE: Thanks to this therapy, I now know what I'm looking for. I need to find a man like you. Not one who's treating me, of course. And I'm going to do it, dammit! You've given me the confidence.
MUMFORD: Sofie. that makes me very happy.
NESSA: .I mean, Doc, the dude is seriously deluded. I said that to him, I said, "If you think I'm gonna do all that shit for you, man, you are seriously What'd he say?
MUMFORD: What'd he say?
NESSA: ( can't hide her pleasure ) He said "Which we already knew!"
MUMFORD: What did he want you to do?
NESSA: First off, he tells me to stop smoking cigarettes. I told him abso-fuckin'- lutely no. As you can see
NESSA: Then he says stop smoking dope. No again. So then he says he doesn't want me getting together with any other guys.
NESSA: .What balls on this guy? What're .going steady? Jesus.
MUMFORD: No again?
NESSA: ( long pause ) I said I'd consider it. Nobody owns me. And the last thing was insane. I don't know what's wrong with him. No magazines.
MUMFORD: I don't know if I can quit. We're gonna try it together, like, you know, AA or something. And I made him give up his .22. No more sneaking around the hills with his fucking nut gun like some loony tune.
NESSA: I don't know if I can quit. We're gonna try it together, like, you know, AA or something. And I made him give up his .22. No more sneaking around the hills with his fucking nut gun like some loony tune.
MUMFORD: He agreed?
NESSA: ( yes ) He's pitiful, Doc, a goddam puppy. I don't know how much longer I can put up with it. I already got two arms and legs, I don't need another
NESSA: Oops. gotta go!
MARTIN: Hiya, Doc.
MUMFORD: ( pulling Nessa tighter ) Did you straighten her out?
MARTIN: ( pulling Nessa tighter ) Did you straighten her out?
MUMFORD: How are you?
MARTIN: Insane! Didn't ja hear? My family got five hundred times better. Let's go, Vanessa.
MUMFORD: I didn't see you there. Can I help My name's Gilroy. I'm from the State Certification Board.
GILROY: My name's Gilroy. I'm from the State Certification Board.
GILROY: It's all right, it won't bite you. Under civil code 1294.67b you are entitled to be notified that your status and certification are being reviewed. This is the notice.
MUMFORD: ( takes the paper ) Do you want to come in?
GILROY: ( already leaving ) No thanks. Plenty of time for that when we're a little further along.
MUMFORD: Mr. Gilroy
MUMFORD: What brought this on?
GILROY: I'm not at liberty to say. Sometimes it's just routine, sometimes there's been a complaint. We'll be in touch.
DELBANCO: .and when you said at lunch about everybody having "a secret life", something just snapped inside me. I knew I could no longer continue my relationship with Dr. Sheeler. It was tearing me up inside. And I know Phyllis wasn't getting what she needed from it. What had started as a genuine respect, I think, for each other's professional abilities, and became, over time, a personal attraction had somehow. migrated into a rather torrid sexual relationship. .I won't go into that today. Though, if we should continue these sessions, as I certainly hope we will, there are some aspects of that I would like to look at. God knows, I've listened to enough people giving me the juicy .At any rate, I just wanted to acknowledge the catalyzing effect your comment had on me. I just hope that it doesn't come roiling back upon you like some dreadful undertow.
DELBANCO: .I won't go into that today. Though, if we should continue these sessions, as I certainly hope we will, there are some aspects of that I would like to look at. God knows, I've listened to enough people giving me the juicy .At any rate, I just wanted to acknowledge the catalyzing effect your comment had on me. I just hope that it doesn't come roiling back upon you like some dreadful undertow.
MUMFORD: How do you mean?
DELBANCO: Well. you see, when I broke it off with Phyllis, she was naturally upset and she became more determined than ever to pursue certain how to put it doubts she's been harboring.
MUMFORD: What kind of doubts?
DELBANCO: About you. your background and your qualifications. I'm afraid Phyllis somehow got you mixed up in her fury with me, and actually took the whole issue to the state board.
MUMFORD: I see.
DELBANCO: And please, for whatever small way I may have encouraged this, accept my There is good news, though.
MUMFORD: What's that?
DELBANCO: Phyllis has decided to leave town and pursue her practice in the city. Which leaves you the only psychologist in town.
MUMFORD: Dr. Sheeler is leaving Mumford? I'm sorry to hear that.
DELBANCO: As you can imagine, my own feelings about this are mixed. Unlike, I must say, those of my wife.
DAY: We ( CAMERA ) are being pummelled by three SMALL TOWN TOUGHS behind Old Man Sutter's gas station/diner in the Follett's fantasy town. [In BLACK & WHITE.] Beyond them, Old Man Sutter's stacked YOUNG WIFE watches in horror from the backdoor of the building. We DO NOT SEE The Newcomer yet.
MUMFORD: I'm very happy for you, Henry. I feel like we're making real progress Me too, Doc. And I can't tell you what that package meant to me
MUMFORD: I feel like we're making real progress Me too, Doc. And I can't tell you what that package meant to me
FOLLETT: Me too, Doc. And I can't tell you what that package meant to me
SOFIE: I need to talk to you. Doctor. Can I come in?
MUMFORD: Of course.
SOFIE: We haven't met in this office since that first time. This is how a real professional and his client are supposed to see each other.
SOFIE: It might've been more appropriate if we had followed a traditional approach to the doctor-patient relationship.
MUMFORD: Is something wrong, Sofie?
SOFIE: Yes, something's very wrong, Dr. You're upset.
MUMFORD: You're upset.
SOFIE: How intuitive! That must take years of training right there. Maybe you can guess what has upset me.
MUMFORD: Is it something you've heard about No, it is not something I've heard about you! It is someth Why? Is there something I should have heard about you?
SOFIE: No, it is not something I've heard about you! It is someth Why? Is there something I should have heard about you?
MUMFORD: Why don't you tell me what's on your May I?
SOFIE: May I?
SOFIE: All right. I'm going to come right out and say this, because that's what your shrink is for, right, so you can tell him what's bothering First of all, I have been feeling much better lately. I don't know if the syndrome is over if it's just run its course or something but I feel a hundred per cent better than when I first came to you.
MUMFORD: ( tone still rough ) First of all, I have been feeling much better lately. I don't know if the syndrome is over if it's just run its course or something but I feel a hundred per cent better than when I first came to you.
SOFIE: ( tone still rough ) First of all, I have been feeling much better lately. I don't know if the syndrome is over if it's just run its course or something but I feel a hundred per cent better than when I first came to you.
MUMFORD: I'm glad.
SOFIE: Given that, I'm obviously not going to be judging things in the most realistic way.
MUMFORD: I don't follow you.
SOFIE: ( sharply ) I'm saying that since I'm doing so much better which I attribute to you I'm liable to misinterpret some of my feelings.
MUMFORD: ( tentative ) The point is this I am not a blank page. I did not just fall off the turnip truck. Do you know what I I think so.
SOFIE: The point is this I am not a blank page. I did not just fall off the turnip truck. Do you know what I I think so.
MUMFORD: I think so.
SOFIE: I know a little about psychology. I took three different courses in college. It's true, none of them were above the two hundred level, but I took them. And there was one concept I remember very well.
MUMFORD: What was that?
SOFIE: Yes, and that is what I have got right now. I have taken my feelings of gratitude. and relief. and transferred them onto. you. I have taken all those warm, grateful emotions and confused them with feelings for you. So that now I am under the delusion. .that I am in love with you.
MUMFORD: Yes, and that is what I have got right now. I have taken my feelings of gratitude. and relief. and transferred them onto. you. I have taken all those warm, grateful emotions and confused them with feelings for you. So that now I am under the delusion. .that I am in love with you.
SOFIE: Yes, and that is what I have got right now. I have taken my feelings of gratitude. and relief. and transferred them onto. you. I have taken all those warm, grateful emotions and confused them with feelings for you. So that now I am under the delusion. .that I am in love with you.
SOFIE: I think you can understand why I have some serious questions about your methods. I mean, obviously it becomes much more likely that I'm going to have confusion about this when your idea of treatment is to go walking in the woods and up to make- outs-ville and do all these highly romantic activities
MUMFORD: I think you can understand why I have some serious questions about your methods. I mean, obviously it becomes much more likely that I'm going to have confusion about this when your idea of treatment is to go walking in the woods and up to make- outs-ville and do all these highly romantic activities
SOFIE: I think you can understand why I have some serious questions about your methods. I mean, obviously it becomes much more likely that I'm going to have confusion about this when your idea of treatment is to go walking in the woods and up to make- outs-ville and do all these highly romantic activities
SOFIE: We had a paper route together, for godssake! Do you understand how I might be a little resentful? Knowing that this so-called "love" I'm feeling is totally bogus, and just a pathetic case of. transference?
MUMFORD: Silence. Then Sofie gets up, wiping at tears with the back of her bare hand. Mumford jumps up to offer her a tissue, but she ignores it. She will not meet his gaze.
SOFIE: Maybe you ought to think about how you're going to fix this. And when you do. .please get back to me.
MUMFORD: Hey, Ainge.
LILY: ( keeps walking )
MUMFORD: ( keeps walking )
LILY: Mumford reluctantly stops. Lily comes up to the fence.
LILY: I don't want you to be mad at Skip.
MUMFORD: He told you.
LILY: ( yes ) Skip and I wouldn't have got together if it weren't for you. That's a big ( dismisses it ) You would have met in some shower I want to give you something. Will you let me?
MUMFORD: ( dismisses it ) You would have met in some shower I want to give you something. Will you let me?
LILY: I want to give you something. Will you let me?
MUMFORD: Thanks, Lily, I don't need anything.
LILY: Yes, you do, you damn well do.
MUMFORD: ( can't fight ) Here it is, some advice do the hard thing.
LILY: Here it is, some advice do the hard thing.
MUMFORD: That's it? That's what you're giving Clean up the mess. No matter what it
LILY: Clean up the mess. No matter what it
MUMFORD: What it might take is. doing time.
LILY: Too bad. That's tough, I mean it. I'm not unsympathetic. But Skip says you're in love.
LILY: Then it's worth it.
MUMFORD: I'll tell her tonight.
ROBERT STACK: .A drug rehabilitation center in the lonely southwestern desert. run by reclusive monks. becomes the point of departure in a mysterious
ROBERT STACK: .as an intrepid government investigator disappears without a
ROBERT STACK: .despite brilliant promise as a fearless investigator. found himself on a downward spiral of drug abuse and dissolution.
MUMFORD'S SISTER: .we didn't talk much after our folks died, but I know he felt his life had taken a wrong turn.
ROBERT STACK: His former undercover partner at the IRS. is now a trooper with the Pennsylvania State Police.
GREGORY: The guy was obsessed. didn't always know where to draw the line. but I would have trusted him with my wife er, my life What'd I say? Both, actually. .I can't say I was surprised, though, when he disappeared.
ROBERT STACK: Who was this enigma. a courageous public servant or a debauched addict?. Either way, his last known stop was here. isolated in the Arizona desert. taken in by an order of devoted monks. We don't talk about the people who've been our guests. but I can tell you this about our order we believe everybody has the right to start over. everybody deserves a second
BROTHER TIMOTHY: We don't talk about the people who've been our guests. but I can tell you this about our order we believe everybody has the right to start over. everybody deserves a second
ROBERT STACK: And perhaps. that is exactly the chance the now-sober pilgrim took. on a blustery November day. walking away from the rehab center. never to be heard from again.
MUMFORD'S SISTER: I'd like to know if he's alive. If he is, I just hope he's happy and his new life is. .well, I hope he's found what he was looking for.
ROBERT STACK: If you have any information about this man or know anything about his whereabouts, contact the Sheriff's Department in Cochise County, Arizona, or call this number.
MRS. COOK: Well, look who's here.
MUMFORD: Good evening, Mrs. Cook.
MRS. COOK: Just who is here, can you tell me?
MUMFORD: Could I see Sofie, please?
MRS. COOK: No, you can not. I wouldn't know who to say is calling.
MRS. COOK: I could see right through you from the start, you imposter. I know what you're after. I knew it then and I know it now!
SOFIE: What do you think I'm after, Mrs. Sofie. It's so obvious. you're after my daughter.
MUMFORD: What do you think I'm after, Mrs. Sofie. It's so obvious. you're after my daughter.
MRS. COOK: Sofie. It's so obvious. you're after my daughter.
MUMFORD: Well, I gotta say, Mrs. Cook, you're right about that.
MRS. COOK: It'll never happen! You're in big trouble, mister.
SOFIE: ( scary strong ) Mother. go away!
MUMFORD: I guess you saw the show.?
SOFIE: Which show was that?
MUMFORD: Part of it. We were watching "ER" until someone called.
SOFIE: Part of it. We were watching "ER" until someone called.
MUMFORD: You probably got the idea.
SOFIE: Do you know what a betrayal this
SOFIE: .How violated I feel?
MUMFORD: You're not the only one.
SOFIE: You feel violated?
MUMFORD: Not me. all my other my patients. I smelled tar and feathers on the way over here.
SOFIE: You deserve it.
SOFIE: I should be irate.
SOFIE: I am irate!
MUMFORD: ( grabbing at the thread ) But nothing. I'm mad as hell. This is a terrible thing you've done.
SOFIE: But nothing. I'm mad as hell. This is a terrible thing you've done.
MUMFORD: I know it! Please believe me, I know
MUMFORD: But, there is one. mitigating factor I want you to consider before you write me off.
SOFIE: Will you think about it?
MUMFORD: Will you think about it?
SOFIE: I don't know. Depends. I'm in a bad I love you. More than I've ever loved anyone or anything in my life.
MUMFORD: I love you. More than I've ever loved anyone or anything in my life.
SOFIE: I want to spend the rest of my life with you. but I'm not sure you feel the same way.
MUMFORD: I want to spend the rest of my life with you. but I'm not sure you feel the same way.
SOFIE: I sort of do.
SOFIE: .but first, you have to tell me Anything. just ask.
MUMFORD: Anything. just ask.
SOFIE: What is your name?
JUDGE OTTO: Clarence Norman White, do you understand how serious are the crimes with which you have been charged?
MUMFORD: I do.
JUDGE OTTO: Do you realize how insidious it is to invade the most private thoughts and secret lives of unsuspecting
JUDGE OTTO: .People who have come to you with the faith that you know what you're doing. and that you are who you say you are?
MUMFORD: Yes, your honor.
JUDGE OTTO: It means absolutely nothing to me that so many of your patients have come forward with praise for you and your therapeutic skills. You understand that?
MUMFORD: Follett is sitting in one of the back rows, apparently alone. But now he looks down the row. Althea is sitting down at the end in a stylish suit, completely appropriate, but a size too small. She gives Follett a sidelong glance, then crosses her legs provocatively. Whatever fantasy they're currently enacting is working really well for both of them.
JUDGE OTTO: Mr. White, I am frustrated that the criminal code in this state allows a maximum sentence of only six months and a maximum fine of only $2000.
MUMFORD: I'm sorry, your honor.
JUDGE OTTO: I'm sorry you're frustrated.
MUMFORD: I'm sorry you're frustrated.
JUDGE OTTO: Are you disrespecting this court, Mr. White?
MUMFORD: No, sir. I was empathizing. Sorry.
JUDGE OTTO: Maybe you can empathize with this Maximum fine. Three months in jail, three months house arrest. Sentence to begin immediately at the Orchard Valley Correctional Facility. Case closed. This court is adjourned.
LIONEL: It's a country club. Don't worry about it.
MUMFORD: Thanks for your help, Lionel.
LIONEL: I'll have him out in half the time.
SOFIE: You got off easy.
MUMFORD: Will you wait for me?
SOFIE: We're only talking about six weeks.
MUMFORD: Will you be here?
SOFIE: Of course. I haven't got the energy to get out of town that fast.
CORRECTIONAL OFFICER: Better make yourself comfortable. We got a three hour drive here.
MUMFORD: I'm fine.
CORRECTIONAL OFFICER: You're the shrink, aren't you?
MUMFORD: No, not really.
CORRECTIONAL OFFICER: But you do therapy?
MUMFORD: Not any more.
CORRECTIONAL OFFICER: I'll tell you, Doc, the wife and I, we got a little bit of a problem. Would you mind if I just ran it by
MUMFORD: Go ahead.
THE END: Writers : Lawrence Kasdan
