MUTE WITNESS: ( 1994 ) Screenplay by Anthony Waller
ANDY: Cut. Brilliant. He puts his hands on his eyes. The actress, still lying on the floor under the drape, raises the drape to look at Andy. ANDY ( yelling ) Natasha ! He stands up. Both Andy and Natasha, the interpreter, walks toward the still lying actress and squats around her.
ANDY: Okay, I think we have a little communication gap here. Natasha translates in Russian what Andy just said.
ANDY: When I said «more». Natasha translates.
ANDY: .I didn't mean trash the fucking set. Natasha translates.
ANDY: This is not Chekhov. You're not the star. You're just another victim. Natasha translates. The actress tries to understand what Andy tells her through You get stabbed. You die. Natasha translates
ANDY: You get stabbed. You die. Natasha translates
ANDY: I want to see the pain. Natasha translates.
ANDY: I want to see the blood spurting. Natasha translates. Andy turns around to Billy and Karen standing among the film crew members. ANDY ( voice over ) Billy, where was the blood ? I want to see her bleed to Billy answers in sign language. ANDY ( to Billy ) Okay ? ( to the actress ) Okay ? The actress, still lying on the floor under the drape, nods her ANDY ( voice over ) Let's do it again, folks ! A man yells some orders in Russian. Billy walks to the actor playing the murderer, sitting on a prop. She checks his blood device. She takes the knife and plugs a tube coming from the man's shirt on the knife's handle. She explains, by signs, how the knife works, and he nods. Billy fixes something inside his shirt and he reacts when Billy touches his stomach.
THE ACTOR: Oh ! He smiles. Billy squeezes a small bag full of fake blood. She has just taken that bag from the inside of the man's shirt. The actor keeps on smiling and Billy doesn't seem to like the man's smile. She puts the bag back inside the actor's shirt. Then Billy signs her sister for her to come. Karen joins Billy, who explains to the actor what he has to do, and Karen translates Billy's sign You make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your elbow. Okay ?
KAREN: You make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your elbow. Okay ?
THE ACTOR: We're gonna be here till Christmas, right ? ( turning around and calling ) Natasha ! Natasha joins the group.
KAREN: We're gonna be here till Christmas, right ? ( turning around and calling ) Natasha ! Natasha joins the group.
NATASHA: Tell him you make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your elbow. She mimes the squeezing movement while speaking. Natasha translates in Russian. Karen nods her head. The actor says a few words in Russian, nodding his head.
KAREN: Tell him you make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your elbow. She mimes the squeezing movement while speaking. Natasha translates in Russian. Karen nods her head. The actor says a few words in Russian, nodding his head.
KAREN: Billy looks at Natasha.
KAREN: Mmmm. She heard you. You all keep forgetting she can hear you perfectly well. Billy smiles. NATASHA ( voice over ) Oh, I'm sorry. BILLY ( in sign language ) It's okay. The actor laughs. Lyosha, who actually is the assistant operator, is behind the camera, near the camera operator. Andy sits down on his chair.
ANDY: Okay, from the top. His Russian assistant, standing near the camera, with an open ring binder in his hands, says a few words in Russian. We hear an angry voice in the background.
THE VOICE: Stop. Stop. Stop! On the dining room part of the set, where the young Russian actress broke everything in sight, two men are trying to fix the broken furniture. Another one, a tall man with a beard, talks very angrily in Russian. Andy, still seated on his chair, looks at his Russian assistant.
ANDY: What's the holdup ? The angry bearded man speaks angrily in Russian. Andy looks and listens at him and then turns toward his Russian assistant, trying to speak, but is cut off twice by the angry voice of the man. The bearded Russian man walks away. Then he comes back and shows his wristwatch, saying a few more angry words in Russian. Andy looks up at his Russian assistant.
ANDY: What is he saying ?
ANDY: Okay, well, let's just do the close-up of the corpse now, and that'll wrap it for today. The Russian assistant says a few words in Russian. Andy makes a sign to the camera operator for him to come closer to him. The operator joins Andy.
ANDY: All right. Okay. So, what I want to do is zoom in, do a slow zoom into the puddle of blood. On another part of the set, behind the dining room, Billy kneels down in front of a big ancient-looking wooden trunk. On the lid of the trunk is written, in white large capital letters : «KEEP OUT ! BILLY'S BOX». Billy opens the trunk. Inside, on the inside part of the lid, various props, and in the trunk itself, a big square plastic bottle and, in a plastic box, plenty of smaller bottles. Behind Billy, who is still kneeling in front of the trunk, we see Lyosha walking around. He looks at Billy, who feels she is being looked at. She turns around and looks at Lyosha. Natasha walks toward Billy.
NATASHA: Natasha kneels down to be at Billy's level.
NATASHA: Madame Olga wants some sugar in her blood again. Billy laughs. BILLY ( in sign language ) Thank you. Billy stands up and starts pulling the big heavy square plastic bottle out of the trunk. Lyosha comes to help Billy pull the bottle out of the trunk. They both slowly put the bottle down on the floor. Billy looks up at Lyosha, who is smiling to her. Then he walks away. Billy, kneeling on the floor, opens the bottle. Karen walks in from behind the trunk. She leans on the open lid of the trunk.
KAREN: So, he's kind of cute. Billy is pouring a bag of sugar in the bottle.
KAREN: Three months in Moscow, cold winter nights. Billy smiles.
KAREN: Just a thought. Billy makes several language signs.
KAREN: Billy, that's what Mom would say. Billy looks at her sister. Another part of the set, near the entrance of the set. The building janitor, wearing a more or less official cap, just walked in. Karen sees the janitor and waves at him. Billy looks in the janitor's direction.
KAREN: Billy waves at the janitor, who waves back at the girls. Then he yells something in Russian. Billy and Karen look at each other. They seem to understand what he says. Billy shows two finger to him. The janitor says something in Russian and walks away. The dining-room set. The young Russian actress is sitting on the floor among the debris she has created and she is putting lipstick on her lips, looking at her face in a small pocket mirror. Billy walks in with a small plastic case in her hands. She sits on the floor next to the actress and puts the box down beside her. She takes the lipstick and the mirror away from the actress' hands, and puts them down on the floor. Then she gives her a little piece of white cotton to wipe the lipstick out of her lips. The actress takes it and starts wiping her lips. Then Billy takes some make-up to put it on the actress' face. A male hand puts a light meter close to the actress' face. A strong light starts playing on Billy's face, and we hear a Russian voice who seems to come from a loudspeaker. The upper part of the film set. Three big spotlights on a rack. An electrician is playing with one of them. Billy puts her hand above her eyes to try to locate who is sending that strong light on her face. The electrician says a few words in Russian. The actress looks up to see who is talking. Closer shot on the electrician sitting on the spotlight rack. He is Arkadi, the man who was sitting next to the actor playing the murderer, and who offered him a light for his cigarette. He speaks in Russian with a queer smile on his face. Natasha squats down near Billy and the actress, to speak to Billy.
NATASHA: He says use more white like a real dead body. Billy covers her eyes and looks up at the spotlight rack. Arkadi smiles and winks to Billy. Billy closes her plastic case. The actress eats a piece of cake. She lies down on the floor. ANDY ( voice over ) Okay, Boris, get everyone ready. Billy, using a pair of tweezers, puts something, which looks like a cherry, out of a small bottle and into the actress' mouth.
ANDY: What. what is going on now ? Billy, standing in the half-dark set with her plastic case in front of her, looks up around her as more spotlights are switched off with loud noises. Alex, who must be the assistant producer, walks toward Andy, tapping his wristwatch.
ALEX: Andy. Sorry, it's six o'clock.
ANDY: One shot, one more shot !
ALEX: We have no time. Billy opens her arms in a gesture of despair. All the people around Andy start leaving the set.
ANDY: One shot ! I can't believe this.
KAREN: She needs to go get Strohbecker's face. Andy claps his hands.
ANDY: Ohh ! Right ! His dummy falls off the balcony on Monday.
KAREN: We'll wait for you here. Billy starts walking away. Andy turns toward Karen.
ANDY: Karen, she's got her own car. Billy explains something in sign language.
KAREN: Okay. Okay. Don't forget tonight. She opens the door of her car. Andy turns around to face Billy.
ANDY: Yeah, yeah, yeah! Fiesta ! I'm making my famous chili con Near Andy's car, Alex, the assistant producer we just saw on the set, is opening the door of his car.
ANDY: Alex !. what do you say ? You coming ? Alex has already opened the door of his car.
ALEX: Sorry. I have tickets for the Bolshoi Ballet tonight. Andy sneers.
ANDY: Well, try and stay awake. Andy opens the door, gets inside the car and closes the door.
ANDY: Yeah ! He takes another spice jar. But the lid of the jar comes off, and all the spices fall down into the meat. He puts the empty jar Damn ! He takes the lid off the meat. We hear the phone ringing. Andy lowers the volume of the music from the radio set hanging on the wall. The phone is still ringing.
ANDY: Damn ! He takes the lid off the meat. We hear the phone ringing. Andy lowers the volume of the music from the radio set hanging on the wall. The phone is still ringing.
ANDY: Honey ! Honey, can you get that ? Andy takes the meat frying pan out of the stove to pour the meat into the onions frying pan.
ANDY: Honey ! KAREN ( voice over ) I'm in the shower ! Andy puts the frying pan back on the stove and runs in the living- room. He picks up the phone from a table.
ANDY: Hello ?. Hello ?
ANDY: Hello ? He tries to reach the stove control panel while still holding the telephone handset to his ear.
KAREN: It could've been Billy. ANDY ( voice over from the kitchen ) I was thinking about dinner. Full shot of the room, with Karen seated at the table, and Andy in the kitchen in the background, still fixing dinner.
ANDY: I'm still thinking about dinner.
KAREN: She's not there either. Shit. She shuts the telephone by pressing on the hook, still keeping the handset to her ear. We ear the long tone of the telephone.
KAREN: Okay. Ohh ! She dials another number.
KAREN: Hello, Billy ! Karen looks up at Andy.
KAREN: Thank God. She's there. Are you all right ?
ANDY: Ask her about the mask. Karen shushes Andy with her hand.
KAREN: You want to tap something through ?
KAREN: Wait. Wait. Wait. Andy turns around because he just heard a hissing noise in the kitchen. He runs toward the stove.
ANDY: Oh, man ! KAREN ( voice over )
ANDY: Oh, man ! In the kitchen, Andy tries to save his cooking.
KAREN: .L ? Andy puts his frying pan down into a large white plastic can full of water, where it starts hissing.
.L ?: Andy puts his frying pan down into a large white plastic can full of water, where it starts hissing.
ANDY: Man ! Oh, man !
KAREN: Was it L ? The second letter, was it L ? Karen shushes Andy with her hand.
ANDY: Shit ! Andy is getting his frying pan out of the plastic can.
KAREN: A-L-L ? While Karen is trying to understand her sister's message, Andy is banging the frying pan on the side of the can, to get rid of everything that was inside it.
KAREN: O.kay ! She smiles. In the kitchen, Andy looks at his empty frying pan.
ANDY: We're eating out tonight.
KAREN: Okay. So are you coming over now ?
KAREN: Well, don't worry. Just get over here.
ANDY: You hungry ?
KAREN: Andy throws the frying pan in the can of water, where it hisses again. Karen looks at Andy, puts the telephone down and makes a CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT Billy is running downstairs.
LYOSHA: Hey ! He walks a couple of steps and stops. He turns around and says a few words in Russian. Billy is hiding behind a big red vending machine at the far end of the corridor. Lyosha looks around him and Billy looks at the emergency exit. Close shot on the handle of the emergency door. Then the camera pans on the left and stops on the red emergency box, with the door key inside. Near the key, is posted a long notice in Russian. Lyosha walks slowly toward Billy. He tries to open a door, but it is locked. We hear him talking in Russian. Billy is still hidden behind the red vending machine.
LYOSHA: Hello ? Lyosha keeps on walking slowly toward Billy.
LYOSHA: Is anyone there ? Lyosha is looking at the far end of the corridor. He crosses toward a door.
LYOSHA: I can explain. He opens the door and walks inside the room. Billy peeks cautiously from behind the machine, and sees the open door. She runs toward the emergency exit. She breaks the glass with her hand and grabs the key. LYOSHA ( voice over ) Ho ? Billy runs back toward the vending machine, behind which she hides Lyosha walks out of the room, leaving the door open, and looks at the far end of the corridor. Billy is still hidden behind the vending machine. Lyosha is coming toward her. Billy moves slowly along the wall, keeping her back as close as possible of the wall. She opens a door and enters a dark room. She closes the door behind her. Lyosha reaches the vending machine, and starts running toward the emergency exit. He stops near the emergency box with its broken glass. He looks inside the emergency box. His finger comes out of the box, with the tip covered with Billy's blood. He tries to open the emergency door, which is locked.
ARKADI: Lyosha ! Lyosha is coming to meet Arkadi. They speak in Russian. Billy looks at the two men, then she moves silently away from them. She reaches the door of the elevator, which is supposed to be out of order, and opens it. She puts the key of the emergency exit door in her mouth, and start climbing down the elevator shaft emergency ladder.
LYOSHA: Arkadi ! Billy is hiding among the plastic bags. Lyosha is still calling Arkadi.
LYOSHA: Arkadi ! He talks to him in Russian. Arkadi comes near Lyosha with a powerful flashlight, and, with it, he looks into the bottom of the shaft. The light from the flashlight is playing on the bags. Close shot of Billy's face, hidden among the bags. The light moves near Billy's face, then moves to a transparent bag, near Billy, with a head inside. Billy looks up at the bag. She screams noiselessly. Suddenly she turns around, because she has seen something else. Close shot of the emergency door key, lying among the debris, brightly lit by Arkadi's flashlight. Arkadi walks away from the elevator, followed by Lyosha. Before leaving, they close the outside door of the elevator. After the door has been closed shut, the elevator shaft becomes completely Billy slowly comes out of the bags. She takes the key. Then she slowly stands up, puts the key in the pocket of her sleeveless jacket and starts climbing the emergency ladder along the wall of the shaft. She climbs just a few step to reach the first door, the basement door. Close shot of the small window on the door of the elevator, seen from outside the shaft. Billy's face appears in the window. The basement is completely dark. Billy tries to open the door, but it is locked. She bangs on it with her hand. Then she shakes it violently. She looks up, on the verge of tears. She sighs. Then she hears some steps. Arkadi is coming carrying a powerful lamp. Billy looks very frightened. The light from the lamp plays on her Billy moves away from the door.
ARKADI: Billy ! Billy starts climbing a ladder, but before climbing, she pushes a heavy piece of furniture to block the bottom of the ladder. The piece of furniture falling down makes other props fall down. Arkadi starts moving the props out of his way. He reaches the bottom the ladder.
ARKADI: Wait. I explain. He starts climbing the ladder, turning his head around to yell :
ARKADI: Lyosha ! In the electricians' control cabin, hearing his name, Lyosha looks outside the cabin. ARKADI ( voice over ) Lyosha ! He says a few words in Russian. A gallery near the ceiling of the set. Billy is running along the Lyosha runs out of the electricians' control cabin and on the Billy runs down a few steps and outside the room. From the other side of the gallery, Lyosha comes running after her.
LYOSHA: Come here, quickly ! Karen runs toward them.
KAREN: Oh, my God, Billy.
LYOSHA: Quickly ! Karen runs toward Billy, still lying on the film boxes in the foreground. She bends over her.
KAREN: What did happen ?
LYOSHA: I don't know. Lyosha looks up at the gallery where Billy fell from.
LYOSHA: She slipped and fall bad. Poor Billy. Karen yells in Andy's direction.
KAREN: Andy, she's at the back !
LYOSHA: Get the doctor, quickly.
KAREN: You go. I'll stay here with her. Billy is trying to say something to her sister.
KAREN: Let go of her.
LYOSHA: No, I must hold her. She must not move. Lyosha's hand is restraining Billy's arm.
LYOSHA: Danger she'll never walk again if she move. Billy is moving nervously, trying to get her arm free to talk to her sister.
LYOSHA: Go !
KAREN: Yeah, okay. Billy tries to move her hand away from Lyosha and bangs on a film KAREN ( yelling in voice over ) Andy ! She bends over Billy.
KAREN: Billy !. Billy, you mustn't move. You may become paralyzed. It's dangerous. Don't worry. I'll be right back. I promise. Karen starts moving away from Billy
KAREN: Andy ! Billy moves nervously, raises from the film boxes and looks desperately at Karen. Karen just saw Billy's last expression and seems worried. Billy is trying to articulate some words. Karen runs back toward Billy. She reaches the pile of film boxes and bend over Billy. She looks at Lyosha. Andy is walking toward them.
ANDY: What's going on ? Karen turns toward Andy.
KAREN: Andy, go with the janitor. Lyosha seems worried. KAREN ( voice over ) .and fetch an ambulance ! Andy joined the janitor with his dog. KAREN ( voice over ) Billy's had an accident.
ANDY: What ? Lyosha says something in Russian to the janitor. KAREN ( voice over ) Don't just stand there ! Karen looks at Andy.
KAREN: Do it now ! The dog barks. Andy turns toward the janitor
ANDY: Ambulance ! The janitor answers in Russian. The dog keeps on barking. Andy pushes the janitor toward his office.
ANDY: Come on ! They both walk away. Karen bends over Billy.
KAREN: It's all right, sweetie. Billy is still moving restlessly.
KAREN: I'm here now and an ambulance is on its way. Karen pushes Lyosha's hand away.
KAREN: Let go of her. She's trying to say something. Lyosha stands up. Billy talks to Karen with her hand.
KAREN: Police ? Billy keeps on signing.
KAREN: Murder ? She looks up at Lyosha. Lyosha shrugs his shoulders and makes a face that means he doesn't know what Billy is talking about.
KAREN: Andy ! Andy !
LYOSHA: Excuse me. It's true. We just fake murder. If we really want to murder. The two uniformed policemen are listening to Lyosha. LYOSHA ( voice over ) .why make film of it ? Lyosha and Arkadi both laugh.
LYOSHA: We're not stupid, really. The janitor is trying to follow the conversation. We hear a policeman talking in Russian. Arkadi answers in Russian. Arkadi must have said something funny, because the policemen are Lyosha and Arkadi look at Billy.
ARKADI: No, no. Sorry. Billy doesn't look at Arkadi, but Karen does. ARKADI ( voice over ) We understand how she feel. She think she see. Back to Lyosha and Arkadi
ARKADI: .a real murder and panic. Billy taps on Karen's arm. Karen looks up at Arkadi. The first policeman looks at the paper he is holding in his hand.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Where did you see the murder from ? Billy stands up and, pointing her finger, shows where she was during the murder. The two policemen both turn around to look at the place Billy is showing. The second policeman moves away and the first one looks at his paper.
FIRST POLICEMAN: And it was this man ? He points at Arkadi. Billy, seated again, points at Arkadi. Lyosha looks at Arkadi. The first policeman resumes the reading of his paper.
FIRST POLICEMAN: But you say here : «He wore a stocking pulled over his Billy looks very angry and keeps on pointing at Arkadi.
FIRST POLICEMAN: «And then they chased me through the building and try to kill me as well.» Arkadi yells something in Russian. Lyosha also says something in Russian, but with a quieter voice.
ANDY: Guys ! Guys ! English, please. Arkadi stops yelling. Lyosha speaks to him. Arkadi pushes him We make test for you. The first policeman looks at Arkadi, and then at Billy.
ARKADI: We make test for you. The first policeman looks at Arkadi, and then at Billy.
ARKADI: For your film. We try make blood much big. Andy looks at Arkadi and then at Billy. Close shot on Billy, enabling us to read her words on her lips. BILLY ( in sign language ) He's lying ! LYOSHA ( voice over ) Sorry, Billy. Billy looks at Lyosha
LYOSHA: We not tell you. Keep secret not to hurt your feelings.
ANDY: I would've let you done tests. Karen slaps Andy. KAREN ( whispering ) Karen tries to tell silently to Andy to shut up.
ANDY: What I mean is. What I mean is. Let's see their film. I'll know if it's real. Billy nods her head, approving what Andy just said. FIRST POLICEMAN ( voice over ) You're right. The first policeman looks at the two men, and speaks in Russian to Arkadi and Lyosha both look slightly embarrassed. Lyosha starts walking away. Karen looks, with a worried eye, to the departing Lyosha.
KAREN: Wait. Stop ! Karen runs after Lyosha.
KAREN: He could expose the film. The first policeman takes Lyosha's arm and talks to him in FIRST POLICEMAN Let her do it. Please.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Let her do it. Please.
KAREN: Karen starts working on the hermetic bag used as a portable dark room. Karen puts her arms inside the bag.
KAREN: This lets you unload the film without needing a darkroom.
FIRST POLICEMAN: I see. Close shot on Arkadi's face. He looks very menacing. Andy starts taking his jacket off. ANDY ( whispering ) God, it's hot in here. In the background, Arkadi is bending down on something we don't see. He looks up at Karen. KAREN ( voice over ) If he had exposed the film to the light, he could have destroyed all the evidence. Billy looks at Arkadi, still busy doing something that we don't KAREN ( voice over ) Actually, I haven't done this since film school. Arkadi stands up from whatever he was doing. KAREN ( voice over ) Right. It's safe in the can now. Arkadi walks around the group. KAREN ( voice over ) Here. Take it to the lab immediately. Close shot on Arkadi walking away. KAREN ( voice over ) .for developing. Billy, who understands something wrong is going on with Arkadi, stamps her feet. Karen gives the film to the first policeman.
KAREN: It's okay. It's okay. Arkadi is walking slowly with something that looks like a knife in his hand. We hear Billy clapping her hands. Andy turns around to look at Billy. Billy points to Arkadi and tries to explain something in sign Karen looks at Billy.
KAREN: Murder weapon ? Where ? Arkadi grabs Andy and pushes him against the wall. Karen screams. Arkadi stabs Andy in the stomach with his knife. Andy screams. He has blood on his cheek. Arkadi keeps on stabbing Andy. The first policeman takes his gun out of his belt. Both policemen grab Arkadi from behind. They pull him away from Andy. They have both drown their guns. Karen rushes toward Andy, whose shirt is covered with blood. Karadi, still restrained by the two policemen, is yelling in LYOSHA ( voice over ) Stop. Stop. Stop! Arkadi drops his knife, and it remains attached to his wrist by a plastic tube. Actually, it was a fake prop knife. Andy stutters, trying to explain something to Karen.
ANDY: What ?
KAREN: What ?
ANDY: I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.
KAREN: Oh, my God! Karadi shows the knife to the policemen. He makes the retractable blade work, to prove it is harmless. Billy walks to her trunk and notices that the padlock on the lid has been broken. She opens the trunk. She takes the fake blood can out of the trunk : it is almost empty. The policemen taste the fake blood.
ANDY: Oh, my God! Karadi shows the knife to the policemen. He makes the retractable blade work, to prove it is harmless. Billy walks to her trunk and notices that the padlock on the lid has been broken. She opens the trunk. She takes the fake blood can out of the trunk : it is almost empty. The policemen taste the fake blood.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Tastes sweet.
ANDY: It's for the actors. They put the stuff in their mouths. Billy stamps her foot. They all turn toward her. She explains something in sign language.
FIRST POLICEMAN: What she say ?
KAREN: That it's her knife. They broke into her box and used all the blood.
FIRST POLICEMAN: So now she say it was a trick. Billy keeps on talking in sign language. Karen translates.
KAREN: It happened so fast she couldn't see the knife clearly.
FIRST POLICEMAN: But everything else she saw tonight was clear ? Huh ? Billy keeps on talking in sign language. Karen translates.
KAREN: The body in the elevator shaft. She saw that. Billy points to the elevator door.
KAREN: What ?
ANDY: What ? What ?
FIRST POLICEMAN: Sweet. It is fake blood.
ANDY: It's fake blood.
KAREN: They could have soaked the sheets in fake blood afterwards.
FIRST POLICEMAN: But. where is the body ? Huh ? The second policeman keeps looking through the trash bags. The first policeman shows the paper, he is still holding, to FIRST POLICEMAN Here you say, "A head cut off." The second policeman has just emptied another bag. He makes a sign meaning «Nothing significant» and talks in Russian. Arkadi answers something that makes Lyosha and the two policemen Billy says something in sign language.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Here you say, "A head cut off." The second policeman has just emptied another bag. He makes a sign meaning «Nothing significant» and talks in Russian. Arkadi answers something that makes Lyosha and the two policemen Billy says something in sign language.
KAREN: Oh ! Wait. Wait. Ah ! She says. Well, there were more bags in there before. The first policeman seems a bit fed up with Billy.
ARKADI: No, she's right. I will show you.
ARKADI: From lift shaft we take the rubbish here. Fast. Easy. The janitor says something in Russian. They have reached the large plastic trash containers where all the trashes from the studio are dropped off, waiting for the garbage collectors to take them away. The second policeman raises the lid of a container, while the first policeman looks inside. Arkadi takes a bag out of another container and drops it on the ground. The second policeman looks inside the bag with his flashlight. There seems to be a head inside the bag. The policeman pours the content of the bag on the ground. Actually the head was just a mask !
ANDY: Hey, we need that. He picks up the mask from the rubbish. He wipes it with his hand. The first policeman gives his card to both Billy and Karen.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Sorry, I can do nothing for you now. But I will call you after I see the film. Okay ? Sorry. He walks away. The second policeman shakes hands with Arkadi and Lyosha and goes away with his chief. Billy rests her head on Karen's shoulder. Lyosha looks at her, shrugs and smiles.
ANDY: Well, I've never been more embarrassed in my entire life.
KAREN: I don't get it. I mean, Billy's a pro. She'd know the difference between a real murder and a gag.
ANDY: Please, has she even seen a real murder ?
KAREN: That's my point. If what she saw tonight was real, then she has seen the difference, right ?
ANDY: Oh, come on, honey. We all bought the guy cutting me up tonight. Even I believed it.
KAREN: Because you're a wuss. She laughs.
ANDY: I'm gonna let that slide. Karen looks at Billy.
ANDY: No offense, Billy, but I'd like to re-shoot the stuff today using that guy's knife.
KAREN: It was her knife. God ! A very short flash-back sequence of the murder of the actress.
ANDY: Whatever. It looked good. Another very short flash-back. We understand those short flash- backs come from Billy's mind reliving what she saw a couple of hours before. Karen, looking at Billy, seems to understand what's going on inside her sister's head, because she says to Andy :
KAREN: Shut up. More short flash-backs of the murder, and a close-up shot on Billy's face. She seems very disturbed.
JANITOR: Buka ! He is apparently calling his dog, but he gets no answer. He starts looking around. He reaches the door of the incinerator. We hear the noise of the incinerator, and we see its light on the janitor's face. The janitor seems surprises that the incinerator is working so late in the night. We hear the dog whining.
JANITOR: Buka ? The janitor enters the incinerator room. He walks slowly around until he reaches the incinerator. The incinerator door is slightly open. He looks inside. Close shot of the inside of the incinerator. Among the flames, a human skull is burning. The janitor walks backward with a terrified look on his face. He trips on something and falls down. Close shot on the fallen flashlight rolling around. In the light, we see a pair of boots, belonging to a still unknown man, standing on the floor. Still lying on the floor, the janitor discovers his dog lying next to him, and starts patting it. The dog's fur is covered with Arkadi walks toward the janitor.
JANITOR: Arkadi walks toward the janitor.
JANITOR: Buka. Buka. Arkadi raises something we don't clearly see ( a knife ? ) above his head and hit the janitor, still lying on the floor.
ANDY: Please, Billy, take some of mine. You'll feel better. Billy explain silently that she is not hungry. Andy takes his plate back.
ANDY: Andy pours a lot of ketchup on his steak. Billy says something in sign language. Karen looks at her, while Andy drinks his wine. Billy keeps on «talking».
ANDY: Could you pass me the salt, please ? Karen gives the salt to Andy.
KAREN: You could at least make the effort. Andy stops eating, looks at Billy drinking water and then at Listen. I'm sorry. All I can think about now is the movie, but as soon as we get back, I promise, I'll learn. He starts eating his steak again.
ANDY: Listen. I'm sorry. All I can think about now is the movie, but as soon as we get back, I promise, I'll learn. He starts eating his steak again.
KAREN: How often have I heard that ?
ANDY: Come on. I can understand some of what she's saying.
KAREN: What ? Andy puts his fork and knife down.
ANDY: Okay, how about this ? Andy makes a sign.
ANDY: Means «makeup», right ? Billy smiles and nods her head «No».
KAREN: Wrong. It means somebody's look, the expression on their That was close.
ANDY: That was close.
KAREN: What Billy said she'll never forget the look on the girl's face tonight from the moment she knew she was gonna die. She said the pain and the terror was real. You can't act Billy looks at Andy and Karen with a worried face. Andy seems suddenly a bit worried too.
THE REAPER: Come closer, Mr. Hausmann. I won't bite. Lyosha starts walking slowly toward the car. THE REAPER ( voice over ) Did it go smoothly ?
LYOSHA: About the money.
THE REAPER: Did it go smoothly ?
LYOSHA: Yes, of course. No problem. The Reaper bends slightly, so his face appears in the light.
THE REAPER: Did it go smoothly, Mr. Hausmann ?
LYOSHA: We did our job. The condition was.
THE REAPER: The condition was that everything would go smoothly.
LYOSHA: Yes. Yes, and we have your diskette.
THE REAPER: And who informed the police ?
LYOSHA: American girl say something, but nobody believe her.
THE REAPER: As long as there are witnesses, there's no money.
LYOSHA: You mean ?.
THE REAPER: I think we understand each other, Mr. Hausmann. The Reaper winds his car window up. Then he sits back in his seat. Lyosha and Arkadi look at the two cars driving away. Lyosha gives a folded paper to Arkadi, who unfolds it. Close up shot on the paper. It shows Billy's address and telephone A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT Low-angle shot on the buildings around the street. Then the camera tilts down to street level. Andy's car drives toward us and stops. Billy opens the back door and walks out of the car. Karen opens the driver's door and walks out. Both sisters close their doors. Billy starts walking toward her building and Karen follows her.
KAREN: No, honestly, you can come back to our place, and we'll set up the couch if you want. Andy has remained in the car. Billy answers her sister in sign language.
KAREN: You're not on one of your «I'll show her how independent I am» kicks, are you ? Andy has got out of the car and is watching the two sister, leaning on the roof of the car.
ANDY: Honey, you coming or what ? Billy waves to Andy and enters her building. Karen looks at her sister and then turns toward Andy.
KAREN: Andy, don't you care about her ? Andy looks offended by Karen's words.
ANDY: I don't care ? I don't care ? Fine, fine. I'm calling the American Embassy tonight, okay ? Billy has stopped near her building door and is looking at Karen and Andy's verbal fight.
KAREN: It's the weekend. They're closed.
ANDY: Not for us. My dad gave me the duty officer's direct number before we left, just in case. So say goodbye. He waves to Billy, who waves back to him. She blows a kiss to her sister, who blows one back, and enters her building.
LARSEN: Mr. Lovett, these are the two officers who answered the He shakes hands with the two policemen.
LOVETT: Good evening, gentlemen. Lovett shakes hands with the two policemen.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Good evening.
LARSEN: Please speak English to the ambassador's secretary. My chief asked me to meet Mr. Lovett here. If this witness is correct about what she saw tonight, she may help my own Your English is quite good, Mr. Larsen.
LOVETT: Your English is quite good, Mr. Larsen.
LARSEN: Thank you. My mother was a translator.
LOVETT: In the university ?
LARSEN: No. KGB. After Larsen's answer, there is a slight embarrassed silence between the two men. Fortunately for them, a door opens and a man in white coat walks out of a room, carrying a film box under his arm. He talks to Larsen in Russian, and shows him the room where they have to go. Larsen shows the room to Lovett.
LARSEN: They all follow the technician.
LARSEN: We've been tracking gangsters in Moscow running an international pornography and prostitution racket. The two policemen enters behind them. Larsen shows a seat to Lovett. The projection room looks like a small cinema theatre, with rows of red seats.
LARSEN: Sit down, please. We have information they have made snuff films here and sold them all over the world. Lovett sits down. Larsen takes his coat off and sits down next to Lovett. The two policemen sit on the row behind the two men.
LOVETT: Snuff film. Is that what I think it is ?
LARSEN: Victims believe they are making a sex film, but they are murdered in front of the camera. Larsen turn toward the two policemen.
LARSEN: What is the name of the witness ? What is it ? He snaps his fingers.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Billy Hughes, sir.
LARSEN: Billy Hughes. Yes. She claims to have seen one being made.
LARSEN: He is brutal, ruthless. They call him The Reaper. Larsen is making nervous movements with his hands.
LARSEN: I'm surprised his men gave up the film so easily. If it is what I think it is, our witness, Billy Hughes, is in great The sequence ends with a close shot on Larsen's worried face.
DIGITAL VOICE: Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking. Momentarily, the scene is seen through a binocular, which makes us realize that Billy is been spied by someone. Billy, apparently getting no answer but a deep breathing noise, chooses the first choice.
DIGITAL VOICE: A shot on the large bay window makes us guess where the spy is hiding : somewhere across the street.
DIGITAL VOICE: Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking. Billy keeps on trying to get an answer.
DIGITAL VOICE: But she gets only a disconnection tone. She takes the earphone out of her ears, and puts them on the table. She looks at the window. Shot on the window, with a zoom on another window across the street. Behind that window, we see the figure of a man looking at Billy with binoculars. Billy seen through the «neighbor's» binoculars. She walks to the window and pull the drapes to hide the window. The «spy» sees the drapes being pulled through his binoculars.
FIRST POLICEMAN: Have you seen a. how do you say. snuff film before ?
LARSEN: I saw a woman tied to a tree kept alive while her arms and legs were cut off. It's hard to talk about it, or even think about it. And it makes you sick to watch it. You never forget the look in the victim's eyes. The sheer panic and horror when they realize they're about to die. Lovett looks very disturbed by what Larsen just told him. The technician knocks on the window between his cabin and the room. Larsen and Lovett turn around, and Larsen makes a sign to tell the technician to start the film. Then he takes a cigarette from the pack he left on his former seat. The room becomes dark and the projection starts. The four men watch the film which has no sound. On the screen of the projection room, we see the sequence when the young actress, pretending she is dying very slowly, breaks the whole set. Lovett and Larsen turn their head toward the cabin.
ANDY: Right. Right. Right, sir. Right, sir. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So, I really appreciate the call. I'll give Dad your best. Right. He puts the phone down back on its hook. Karen has a worried look on her face.
KAREN: Well ?
ANDY: I told you. There's nothing to worry about. He says the film's the biggest piece of shit he's ever seen. Andy is smiling, but Karen still has a worried look on her face.
DIGITAL VOICE: Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking.
KAREN: Hi, Billy. It's Karen. I hope you weren't sleeping. I just wanted to check and see if you're okay.
DIGITAL VOICE: I am fine. No need to worry. Did you call earlier ?
KAREN: No, I got straight through. You sure you're okay ?
DIGITAL VOICE: Sure. Had bath. All fine. Now I go to bed. You too.
KAREN: I just wanted to tell you : they saw the film, and it's not the real thing.
KAREN: Did I hear something there ?
DIGITAL VOICE: Doorbell. Wait. I'll see who. She puts her earphones down, and stands up. We can still hear faintly Karen's voice coming from the earphones. KAREN ( voice over from the telephone ) What ? Ah ! It's almost one o'clock. I wouldn't get that, ( louder ) Billy ? Billy is looking through the peephole on the door.
KAREN: Billy ? You be careful, now. Check who it is first. Karen's louder voice has awaken Andy, who sits up.
NIGHT: The landing, just outside Billy's apartment front door, is dark and empty.
ARKADI: Please. I want to talk. Desperately, Billy tries to push the door shut. Close up on the earphones on the machine keyboard. KAREN ( voice over from the telephone ) Billy ?
KAREN: Billy, are you still there ?
ANDY: Would you leave her alone ? He lies back in the bed.
KAREN: I heard a noise, Andy. Something's happened. I swear.
KAREN: Billy ! She puts the phone down and stands up from the bed.
KAREN: Okay, that's it. I'm going there. Andy sits up on the bed.
ANDY: What ?
DIGITAL VOICE: Karen, help. Call police. Emergency. Close up shot on the door lock. We can guess that Arkadi is trying to open the door with a power tool. Billy puts her earphone on. She hears the disconnection tone. She presses the disconnection switch on her own telephone. Close up shot on the door lock. One of the screws holding the lock pops off and falls on the floor. Billy is listening to a Russian-speaking female voice in her earphones. She types on her keyboard.
DIGITAL VOICE: Police, emergency. A few word in Russian and then, more distinctly :
DIGITAL VOICE: Getting a Russian answer, she types «Da»
DIGITAL VOICE: Billy chooses a pre-recorded message, and sends it.
DIGITAL VOICE: Hello, my name is Billy Hughes. My address is apartment
DIGITAL VOICE: . 126 Kievsky prospekt. Billy takes her earphones off and rushes out of the room.
DIGITAL VOICE: Telephone 9-2-0-9-5-9-1-0.
DIGITAL VOICE: Billy Hughes speaking. Close up shot on the lower screws of the lock. They're vibrating under Arkadi's tool.
DIGITAL VOICE: This is a digital voice computer. Close up on the answering machine screen. Billy select another message. She puts her earphones on.
DIGITAL VOICE: Please have patience and I will answer. Apparently, the telephone company found an English-speaking TELEPHONE OPERATOR Hello ? You English ? Billy works frenetically on her answering machine.
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: Hello ? You English ? Billy works frenetically on her answering machine.
DIGITAL VOICE: My name is Billy Hughes.
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: Yes ? What do you want, please ? Close up on the screen. Billy is typing a message.
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: Hello ?
DIGITAL VOICE: Help. Intruder. But apparently, the operator doesn't speak such a good English
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: I no understand. Sorry. The operator speaks in Russian, certainly to another operator. Billy types another message.
DIGITAL VOICE: Bad man want to kill me.
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: Bad man ? I get man who speak English, yes ? Close up on the lock : another screw pops off. Billy takes her earphones off and rushes to the light switch. She puts all the lights of the room at their maximum lighting BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM WINDOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT We see Billy's living room window from the outside. Billy is pulling the drapes wide open. Then she starts waving her arms to attract the attention of the peeping-Tom and his binoculars. Reverse angle shot on the window where the peeping-Tom was standing when he was watching Billy. There is light coming through the window and someone is moving in the room behind the curtains, but the peeping-Tom doesn't seem interested by Billy at the Back to Billy's window. She unties her bathrobe and shows her The peeping-Tom is still moving in the room behind the curtains, but he doesn't come to the window.
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: I speak English. The door burst open and Arkadi walks into the room. Billy picks up her big kitchen knife and points it to Arkadi.
LYOSHA: Where's the diskette ? He puts a piece of paper and a pen in front of her face. He frees her right hand for her to be able to write.
LYOSHA: Where is the diskette ? Billy takes the pen and starts writing. Close up shot on the paper. Billy writes : «What diskette ?»
LYOSHA: I know you have ! Lyosha raises Billy's bathrobe above her waist, revealing Billy naked bottom underneath. Billy looks very frightened, afraid of what Lyosha can do to a defenseless naked girl. She takes the pen very firmly in her hand and brings it violently to Lyosha's leg. Close up shot of the pen hitting Lyosha's leg. Lyosha screams. He raises his knife to bring it down on Billy. Billy is waiting for the worse to happen. She hears the noise of something - or someone - falling violently on the floor. And suddenly, she realizes she is free. She raises from the table and sees Larsen holding Arkadi's big wire-cutter in his hands. He just hit Lyosha with it. Larsen throws the wire-cutter on the floor and bends on Billy.
LARSEN: My name is Alexander Larsen. I'm a policeman. Take your clothes. We must get out of here. Larsen goes to the window and peeks through the drapes.
LARSEN: You must hurry. Billy rushes to her clothes she had dropped on the floor when Lyosha grabbed her. She sits down on the floor and starts putting her socks on.
LARSEN: I explain everything in the car. He is still peeking through the drapes.
LARSEN: In the car. No time now. He gathers the rest of Billy's clothes, takes her hand to makes her stand up, and drags her outside the apartment.
LARSEN: They are coming. Billy starts putting her panties on.
LARSEN: We are in great danger. He looks down at Billy, who is still putting her panties on. He takes the rest of Billy's clothes in his hands, and presses the button number «3».
LARSEN: Larsen's car is parked just in front of the building. Larsen opens the passenger's door for Billy, who climbs inside the car. Then he walks around the car, open the driver's door and climbs inside. He starts the engine. A big black limousine, with two men inside, starts and follows Larsen's car, which has just started. The driver is Wartschuk, whom we have seen before with The Reaper, and who is The Reaper's first assistant.
LARSEN: It's not over yet. Billy puts her jacket on. Larsen looks in the back-view mirror.
KAREN: Oh, my God, it's trashed ! Karen rushes through the room. Andy remains on the doorstep.
ANDY: Oh, my God, it's trashed ! Karen rushes through the room. Andy remains on the doorstep.
KAREN: Billy, where are you ?
ANDY: I'll call the police !
KAREN: Billy ! Oh, Billy. Oh, my God !
ANDY: How do you work this thing ? Oh, there it is. Behind Andy, the front door is closing slowly, revealing Lyosha standing behind it. He has the big wire-cutter in his hand, and is ready to hit Andy with it. Andy looks at the cut cord, but doesn't realize the telephone can't work with a cut cord.
KAREN: Someone's dead in the ba. She doesn't finish her sentence, because she has just seen Lyosha behind Andy. She grabs Andy and moves him out of the way of Lyosha's wire-cutter. The wire-cutter smashes what is left of the door of the corridor.
KAREN: God ! Oh, my God ! Lyosha looks at the door, and doesn't even bother to smash it. He slowly walks back to the living room. We hear Karen and Andy's voices in the room. KAREN ( voice over ) Get the door ! Get a chair ! Get the chair ! ANDY ( voice over ) What chair ? KAREN ( voice over ) The chair ! Out of the way ! Move ! Put it over there! ANDY ( voice over ) Move! Get the wardrobe over ! Lyosha enters the living-room through what remains of the door. KAREN ( voice over ) Andy, quick ! Push it !
LARSEN: The girl you saw murdered tonight. Billy nods in approval.
LARSEN: .her boyfriend stole a diskette full of information. Money, names, connections, everything. He blackmailed The Reaper. Very dangerous. And now he thinks that you have the Billy mouth a word we can easily understand.
BILLY: Me ?
LARSEN: You have it ?. Huh ? Billy is trying to think about the lost diskette.
ANDY: We don't have any diskettes. The policeman picks up a diskette he had thrown on the floor and looks at it.
ANDY: Not that one. That's my script. Karen hits Andy with her elbow. The policeman puts the diskette into a small white plastic bag he is carrying around. He puts another diskette in the bag. The other policeman is speaking in Russian in a walkie-talkie.
LARSEN: The girl had it when she went into the studio. Then she was murdered, and it was gone. Where is it ? Think. You were the only person there. Close up shot on Billy's face trying to think about the mysterious diskette. She has a short flashback of Arkadi taking the knife to murder the actress. Then another one of the naked actress lying on the bed. Then another one of the blood splattering the wall. Then another one of Arkadi stabbing the girl.
LARSEN: Another short flashback of Billy going away from the set. Then another one of Billy bumping into the hatstand. Then another one of the girl's purse contents scattered on the floor. Then another one of the diskette skidding on the floor and hiding under the large wooden wardrobe. Billy grabs Larsen's shoulder.
LARSEN: Write. Write it. Billy takes a notepad and starts writing on it. But she is interrupted by a Russian voice coming from somewhere in the car. Larsen opens the glove compartment and takes a walkie-talkie out of it. He talks in Russian in the talkie. Billy looks at the pair of handcuffs in the glove compartment. Larsen puts the talkie back in the compartment.
LARSEN: Write it. They drive along a police station, but Larsen doesn't stop. Billy looks a bit worried all of sudden.
LARSEN: Quick, write. Billy shows the police station to Larsen. Then she writes «Police» on the notepad.
LARSEN: Police ? Yes. Yes, but only with the diskette. She writes «Why ?» on the notepad.
LARSEN: You know, I work undercover. The Reaper thinks I work for him. Trust me. Trust me. She grabs the steering-wheel to force Larsen to park the car.
LARSEN: Crazy !
LARSEN: They'll kill you ! Billy shows him the handcuffs key. Then she slams the door. Larsen moves his hand nervously, but, of course, can't get it out of the A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT Billy is running away from Larsen's car toward the other car.
LARSEN: Get in !
LARSEN: Get in!
LARSEN: Please, give me the keys. Billy nods her head «No». Larsen gives her the notepad.
LARSEN: Write. Where is the diskette ? Billy looks at the following car.
LARSEN: We cannot escape in this car. Write. Write. Billy starts writing. Then she shows the note pad to Larsen, who reads it.
LARSEN: Studio. Where in the studio ? Billy makes a «No» with her finger.
WARTSCHUK: Delta three.
ANDY: What ? The policeman drops the talkie on the table and talks to his What ? The other policeman walks near Andy and Karen, raising his gun.
ANDY: What ? The other policeman walks near Andy and Karen, raising his gun.
ANDY: This is all a big misunderstanding and. Excuse me, but this is. The first policeman takes Andy's hands and cuffs them behind his You don't have to arrest us. Why is he arresting me ? This is ridiculous. I'm an American citizen. Do you understand what I'm saying ? Now, I'm a director. Karen turns her head and looks at the dead Lyosha.
ANDY: You don't have to arrest us. Why is he arresting me ? This is ridiculous. I'm an American citizen. Do you understand what I'm saying ? Now, I'm a director. Karen turns her head and looks at the dead Lyosha.
ANDY: You know, I'm directing a movie here in Moscow. I'm bringing a lot of money in this place. The policemen don't seem to take any notice of what Andy is saying. One is still cuffing his hands while the other one is holding his gun.
ANDY: And my father, okay, he knows a lot of big people, and. The policeman raises Andy to his feet and moves him away from You want money ? Is that what you want ? The policeman has seated Andy on an armchair. He bends him down and puts the barrel of his gun on Andy's neck.
ANDY: You want money ? Is that what you want ? The policeman has seated Andy on an armchair. He bends him down and puts the barrel of his gun on Andy's neck.
ANDY: I don't understand what is going on here. We don't have a diskette !
ANDY: The diskette. You know, I mean, this is ridiculous. We don't have a diskette. That's what I'm saying. The policeman clicks his gun in a «ready to shoot» position. Karen grabs the carpet with both hands and pulls it violently. The small telephone table falls on the floor, but also the policeman who was ready to kill Andy. In his fall, he pulls the trigger of his gun, which shoot a bullet at the other policeman, who falls dead on the floor. Andy tries to get off the armchair, but just falls down with it. Karen picks up the telephone handset, with its cut cord hanging from it. She rushes to the first policeman, and starts hitting him on the head with the handset. Andy stands up.
ANDY: Karen, get the key ! Get the key ! Unlock me !
ANDY: Right. Let's get out of here. Close shot on the talkie lying on the floor. WARTSCHUK ( voice over from the talkie ) Delta three. Delta three. Andy and Karen look at the talkie.
KAREN: Answer it.
ANDY: Why ?
KAREN: They may say something about Billy. WARTSCHUK ( voice over from the talkie ) Delta three. Karen picks up the talkie and gives it to Andy. ANDY ( with an exaggerated deep voice ) Of course, he gets an answer in Russian.
ANDY: He gets another Russian answer, but the word «studio» is clearly Karen takes the talkie out of his hands and throws it.
ANDY: Karen takes the talkie out of his hands and throws it.
KAREN: I got something about studio. Come on. The policeman, who had been knocked out by Karen, is slowly waking up. Karen sees him and yells.
KAREN: Look out ! Karen picks up a gun and points it at the policeman. Andy grabs a wooden armchair and crashes it on the policeman's back. The armchairs breaks apart. The policeman falls down, unconscious. The door opens and the next floor neighbor walks in. He yells something in Russian. Karen turns toward him, with the gun still pointed in front of her. The man look at the mess, the dead bodies. and the gun. He raises his arms above his head. Andy throws away the pieces of armchair he still had in his hands. Karen puts the gun behind her back.
ANDY: Mmm. It's not what you think. What do you say ?. How do you ?. In Russian, what ?. Karen says a couple of words in Russian. Andy turns toward her.
ANDY: What ? What does that mean ?
KAREN: Hello ? We need help ! The man starts talking rapidly in Russian.
ANDY: Hello ? We need help ! The man starts talking rapidly in Russian.
ANDY: I'm a director, and I'm making a movie here. This is not a The man hasn't stopped talking. Actually, he and Andy have been talking together. Now he yells something in Russian. Andy turns toward Karen.
ANDY: Put the gun away. You look like a hit man. He thinks we're gonna kill him ! Andy took the gun from Karen and now he is waving it at the man.
KAREN: We're not gonna kill you !
ANDY: This is not even ours !
KAREN: The policemen wanted to kill us ! The man turns around and runs out of the apartment, yelling in We gotta get out of here.
KAREN: We gotta get out of here.
ANDY: Well, I think we should call the cops.
KAREN: Are you crazy ?
ANDY: Well, we can explain this.
KAREN: Explain ? You are crazy. Come on. Here. She has a gun in her hand and she gives him another gun. She runs out of the apartment. Andy takes the handcuffs from the table.
ANDY: I'll take these too. He follows Karen out of the apartment.
LARSEN: And now ? Billy tries to get out of the car, but she can't open the back Child locks. Billy gets the key out of her pocket and gives it to Larsen, who unlocks the handcuff. He gets out of the car and closes the door. He goes around the car to open Billy's door. As he is doing it, he sees car headlights coming his way.
LARSEN: Child locks. Billy gets the key out of her pocket and gives it to Larsen, who unlocks the handcuff. He gets out of the car and closes the door. He goes around the car to open Billy's door. As he is doing it, he sees car headlights coming his way.
LARSEN: Don't look now, but our friends are still here. They both runs toward the building. He opens a big metal door and they enter the building.
LARSEN: I will block the other entrances. They both walk away.
ANDY: What. what are you doing ? That. that's Red Square.
ANDY: Oh, perfect.
ANDY: This damn gun, I can't work the safety. Karen shushes him down. They both peek inside, and they are surprised to see such a number of big black cars.
ANDY: Holy shit ! Wartschuk is giving orders through his walkie-talkie. A man with a machine-gun walks away from him. Back to Karen and Andy, still standing outside the entrance.
KAREN: Around the back. They run across the entrance. The men, all looking toward the building, don't see them. Wartschuk is still giving orders. All the men with machine-guns are scattering around the building. Someone is calling Wartschuk through his talkie. Wartschuk smiles. He walks away from his men. On the other side of the studio compound, Karen and Andy are entering the place by climbing over the wall. Karen is already in the place and she is helping Andy to join her. For the moment, he is sitting on top of the wall and he throws the two guns to her. Then he goes down himself. Karen holds his legs.
KAREN: Okay. Jump, Andy. I got you.
ANDY: What ?
KAREN: I got you. I got you. Andy falls down heavily on the ground. On a balcony on a near building, a man is watching the yard with a flashlight. This is the balcony which Billy fell from. Andy and Karen are crossing the yard, trying to be as discrete as Wartschuk is climbing rapidly up an emergency ladder to meet the man with the flashlight. Karen and Andy, lying low, are coming slowly toward the building. Wartschuk has reached the balcony where the man is watching the yard. They whisper in Russian. Then Wartschuk goes inside, actually through that same emergency door through which Billy tried earlier to escape. The watcher closes the door behind him. Andy and Karen are still crawling slowly toward the building. On the balcony, the man is smoking a cigarette.
LARSEN: It's no use. All lines are cut. Billy is watching Larsen. Behind her, we see Wartschuk peeking through the half-open door.
LARSEN: Where is it ? Billy shows him the ancient-looking wardrobe under which the diskette is hidden. He bends down. Then he raises and takes a piece of wood from a rack. He slides the piece of wood under the Wartschuk enters silently on the set. Larsen gets the diskette out of its hiding place. Billy picks it up. Behind her, Wartschuk has got his gun out. Billy stands up with the diskette in her hand. She smiles. Wartschuk grabs her from the back. She throws the diskette. Larsen catches it.
LARSEN: You helped us a lot, Billy. Thank you. Larsen puts discreetly the diskette in Wartschuk's pocket.
WARTSCHUK: The Reaper wants to meet the woman who has kept him up all night and witnessed a live snuff. He gives his gun to Larsen.
WARTSCHUK: He wants you to do it.
LARSEN: You know why we call him The Reaper ? You see his face, you Billy spits in Larsen's face. Then she yells silently, because Wartschuk is squeezing her a little tighter. Larsen wipes the spit from his face. Larsen raises his gun, holding it by the barrel. Billy looks very frightened, because she knows that Larsen is going to knock her out. But the butt of the gun lands violently. on Wartschuk's head, who screams and falls heavily on the floor. Billy looks from Larsen to the falling man, not understanding clearly what happened.
ANDY: Nice night, isn't it ? Karen is slowly going around the pile of empty film boxes on which Billy fell earlier.
ANDY: I'm just taking a piss. Right, you know, just. The watcher walks slowly down the ladder. Karen reaches the ladder, climbs on something we don't see, and catches the watcher's foot through the steps of the ladder. The man falls and rolls all the way down the ladder. He is unconscious and Andy ties his wrist to the ladder with the handcuff. Karen joins him. Andy seems very happy about the successful operation. The Reaper's black limousine is entering the parking lot. Karen, who has started to go up the steps of the ladder, looks at the limousine.
KAREN: Who the hell is that ?
ANDY: Well, whoever it is, they're coming here. They reach the balcony and enter the building. The Reaper's car is driving toward the building, with all the men, equipped with machine guns, watching his arrival.
ANDY: I can't work the safety.
KAREN: Andy, come on.
ANDY: Yeah, yeah, I'm coming. He falls down, dropping all the bullets on the floor.
KAREN: Hurry ! Andy picks up his bullets, stands up and runs after Karen.
THE REAPER: Where is she, Larsen ? We guess he is talking into a walkie-talkie.
KAREN: Shoot him. Shoot him, Andy.
ANDY: Andy shoots, misses Larsen, and hits a statue. Larsen and Billy try to hide from the shooter. Andy shoots again and misses again.
KAREN: Be careful of Billy ! God. Karen runs along the gallery, while Andy shoots and misses again. And once again. Then he realizes that the gun is empty and he drops it on the floor of the gallery. He runs after Karen. Down below, Larsen brings Billy near the big metal door opening on the outside. He unlocks the padlock that he had put earlier on the bolt of the door. Karen rushes toward them. KAREN ( yelling ) Billy ! Larsen pulls the bolt open. Billy is very surprised to see her sister. Larsen points his gun at her and yells something in Karen stops running, but Billy makes large signs to her, signs she doesn't seem to understand. Karen hides, and then comes out.
LARSEN: Stay where you are ! Karen throws a piece of metal at Larsen. The piece of metal hits his hand and he drops his gun. KAREN ( yelling ) Run, Billy. Run ! Run ! Billy opens the big metal door. Andy runs in to join Karen. Larsen picks up his gun, and points it at Billy.
LARSEN: Stand back ! But Billy is already out of the building. KAREN ( yelling ) Not out there ! Andy grabs Karen and pulls her out of Larsen's gun.
THE REAPER: Kill her, Larsen. Larsen walks out of the building, and we hear the end on The Reaper's sentence coming from his own walkie-talkie.
LARSEN: Now please, let me explain. Please ? KAREN ( yelling ) Explain ? She rushes out of Andy's arms and bumps violently into Larsen.
ANDY: Karen ! They both fall on the floor, and Larsen's gun flies away from his hand. Karen hits Larsen very hard with both her fists. Andy picks up the gun and points it at Larsen. Larsen pushes Karen away from him. Karen takes the legs of a statue and hits Larsen with it. Then she grabs Larsen by the ears and throws him on the metal door. She turns toward Andy.
KAREN: Kill him. Karen opens the door and walks out.
KAREN: You genius !
ANDY: You thought we were tourists, huh ? Guess again, pal. Larsen is slowly getting up.
ANDY: Don't move. Don't move! I'm talking to you ! He shoots the gun to the ceiling.
ANDY: I'm warning you. Don't move or I'm gonna shoot you ! Okay ! He shoots at Larsen, who doesn't react and walks closer to him. He shoots twice more, walking backward. He bumps into a prop and falls down on his back. next to Wartschuk, all tied up and with a large piece of tape across his mouth. Wartschuk moans, Andy screams and gets quickly up. He rushes out of the building while Larsen is trying to get over what just happened to him
ANDY: Billy ! Billy ! Billy !
KAREN: She's okay. She's fine.
ANDY: She's fine ? She's okay ? Billy mouth the words «I'm fine» and shows him the special effect device on her stomach. Larsen comes behind her and takes her by the shoulder, saying a few words in Russian. Billy says something in sign language to Karen.
KAREN: A cop ?
ANDY: A cop ?
KAREN: Oh, my God, I'm sorry.
ANDY: Forget it. Your sister was brilliant. Karen pats Larsen's shoulder.
LARSEN: Forget it. Your sister was brilliant. Karen pats Larsen's shoulder.
KAREN: Next time, hit back. Larsen throws a remote control into Andy's hands.
ANDY: Oh !. this is the remote. I get it. They all laugh. Larsen pats Andy's shoulder.
LARSEN: Big cowboy. Billy starts talking in sign language to Larsen. He turns toward What ?
LARSEN: What ?
KAREN: That was an invitation to dinner sometime.
LARSEN: How you say ?. It would be a pleasure. Billy mouthes the word «Pleasure» and then makes the sign for it, which is rubbing you stomach. Larsen makes the same sign. Then he stops and seems to think about something.
LARSEN: I still don't understand.
KAREN: What ?
LARSEN: I don't understand why The Reaper didn't take the diskette off me.
KAREN: Who ? The sound of a shot, and a blood bag explodes under Billy's sweater. Karen screams. Since she was just in front of Billy, her face is covered with fake blood. Andy looks at them, the remote control in his hand.
ANDY: Whoops !. Shit. I'm sorry. They all look at him. Larsen smiles.
LARSEN: Big cowboy. A little later. Andy drives his car near the entrance of the building. Billy walks toward the car, looking at Wartschuk, his mouth still gagged, being forced by Larsen to go inside his car. He moans incomprehensible words, and seems not to want to get inside the Andy waves to Larsen.
ANDY: Ciao !. Andy opens the back door of his own car to let Billy inside. But she doesn't climb in, still surprised by Wartschuk's attitude. Finally, Larsen succeeds in putting his prisoner in the back of his car, where another prisoner, also gagged, is already waiting ( certainly the man that Andy had handcuffed earlier on the emergency ladder ). Before climbing into the driver's seat, Larsen waves to Billy.
LARSEN: Billy, tomorrow ! He makes the «pleasure» sign. Billy waves back to him.
LARSEN: Tomorrow ! Billy looks at Wartschuk inside the car. She seems worried.
ANDY: What's the matter ? Billy makes several signs. Andy doesn't understand, but he looks at Larsen. Larsen smiles back to him.
LARSEN: Big cowboy. Karen is already seated in the car, and doesn't understand the reason for the delay.
KAREN: Guys, could we get out of here, please ? Close shot on Wartschuk's face, who is trying to tell them Andy eventually understand what Billy is trying to tell him. It is the word he learned earlier in the restaurant.
ANDY: The expression ? Billy nods «Yes». Larsen smiles to her and starts his car. Billy slams violently on the roof of Andy's car. She seems frightened by something. She yells silently.
ANDY: The car ? Billy keeps on yelling silently and moving her arms. Andy is beginning to understand what she means.
ANDY: The car. ANDY ( yelling ) Get out of the car ! Get out of the car !
CREDITS: White letters on a black screen. Writers : Anthony Waller
