CAPTAIN: A variation on our squid ink risotto. Trace of Moselle, to sweeten the stock. She doesn't like that idea at all. Shoots him a sharp look of doubt that makes him smile. Murmur.
CAPTAIN: Don't kill us on this one, it's a long shot. Places the moist lump of black rice before her. She takes a surprisingly small amount, rolls it over her tongue. Makes dead flat eye contact with Digger. And nods, it's actually quite nice. The Captain breathes with relief. She turns her dark eyes to him. The tone says they're pals.
JULIANNE: I'm writing it up as inventive and confident. Which it is. Off the record, I'll need an extra boat of the ink. Or a salt shaker.
CAPTAIN: I'll toss a coin. As the Captain splits, Digger looks around at the other tables, which makes many pairs of eyes awkwardly glace away.
DIGGER: Is it ever embarrassing, having your bum kissed in public?
JULIANNE: If your ass isn't chapped, you are not a good-writer of note. She glances at her two remaining waiters, who shamelessly fawn Is it sad to be an editor, and bask only in reflected insincerity?
JULIANNE: Is it sad to be an editor, and bask only in reflected insincerity?
DIGGER: I've adjusted, and thanks for asking. She leans forward, as if sharing something conspiratorial.
JULIANNE: See the pull of a book like Twenty Chefs, is not who I put in. It's who I leave out.
DIGGER: Which is everyone you couldn't get in.
JULIANNE: Plus some guys whose food I don't Pushes the risotte across to him. He lifts a fork.
DIGGER: This fellow from Newsday ever She shrugs. Pulls a cellular out of a large, jumbled bag.
JULIANNE: I'll buzz my machine. Inventive and confident, yeh? She dials. He tastes.
DIGGER: Needs salt.
JULIANNE: Is Newsday a real interview, or just some cute guy you're setting me up w.
DIGGER: . I don't send you men, anymore. You don't know what to do with them. She's punching in her code.
JULIANNE: Sometimes I do. Like for two months.
DIGGER: . weeks. Over the phone, we hear her answering machine. MAN'S VOICE ( V.O., soft ) Hey. It's Michael. And her face changes. Warms. Just to hear the guileless voice.
DIGGER: Who called? The man of the She smiles. A sweet, natural smile that makes us like her, too. The Bohemian sophisticate has vanished.
JULIANNE: No, no, the opposite. That's my best friend, Michael O'Neal. He sounds desperate to talk.
DIGGER: The wandering sportswriter. He pushes the risotto back her way.
DIGGER: I didn't know you two had a Her gaze sharpens. Hmmn?
DIGGER: The look in your eye. She blushes. Shakes her head, no way.
JULIANNE: Sophomore year at Yale we had this one hot month. And, you know me, I got restless. He knows her. She got restless.
JULIANNE: So I get up the nerve to break his heart. I tell him there's this dreamy exchange student from Pakistan who wants to, you know. He knows.
JULIANNE: And he gets this. look. He says, "I knew I couldn't hold your interest", which, of course, makes me feel like the shallow bitch I've always been. He nods, yeah.
JULIANNE: Then he says, "But what makes me want to cry. Is I'm losing the best friend I ever had." Hears the feeling. In her voice.
JULIANNE: And when he said it, I knew. I felt the same. Silence now. She covers with a smile.
JULIANNE: So I cried. For maybe the third time in my life. And I kissed him. And we've been best friends ever since. Ever since. Fingers turning her wine glass.
JULIANNE: Nine years, we've seen each other through everything. Losing jobs, losing parents, losing lovers. travelled all over, we've had the best times. The best times of my life, maybe. Just drinking and talking. Even over a phone.
DIGGER: Kindred spirits.
JULIANNE: No, he's nothing like me. He's like you. Only straight. No offense taken.
JULIANNE: He's the salt of the earth. Kind and loyal and generous. The one constant thing in my life, is he'll always be there.
DIGGER: He's still in love with you. That stops her. She has to say.
JULIANNE: Maybe. But it never gets in the way. Something she probably hasn't confessed out loud before. Digger Well, he has a true friend in He wants her to know he sees that.
DIGGER: Well, he has a true friend in He wants her to know he sees that.
DIGGER: Whenever George tells someone how steadfast I am, he always makes me sound boring.
JULIANNE: Solid and genuine is not boring. Michael can be completely insane. A young waiter arrives. Sets a boat of black squid ink beside her There was this one night in Tucson, like six years ago. we got amazingly drunk, I mean, Keith Richards time. The kid tops off her glass of meursault. Looking at her.
JULIANNE: There was this one night in Tucson, like six years ago. we got amazingly drunk, I mean, Keith Richards time. The kid tops off her glass of meursault. Looking at her.
JULIANNE: God, I haven't thought of this in so long. The waiter hanging now. Openly listening.
JULIANNE: I can even believe we did Digger sees the guy listening, gestures to her with his eyes. So she looks up.
JULIANNE: Could you give us a minute? The kid stunned, speechless. People lose jobs for a lot less.
JULIANNE: You won't miss much, I promise there was no sex. He reddens and disappears.
DIGGER: I've lost interest.
JULIANNE: He takes a razor from his dinky little dopp kit, cuts his fingertip, takes my hand, does the same to me. She places the tips of her index fingers together.
DIGGER: Blood oath.
JULIANNE: He says, "Swear. When we're both 28, if we've never been married. we marry each other!" And laughs again. Can you believe that? But Digger isn't smiling. She wonders why. Begins to spoon black squid ink onto her risotto.
JULIANNE: See, he figured that would be a sign from God, or someone of comparable authority, that we'd misunderstood our destinies. He still has this real serious look. She's still spooning ink.
JULIANNE: We never talked about it again. I don't know what made me think of. DIGGER ( quietly ) I do. And everything. Stops. She lifts her spoon, mesmerized by the gravity of his tone.
DIGGER: You'll be 28 in three weeks. How old is he? Holy. Fucking. Shit. It hits her like a ton of lead bricks. She shovels some swampy risotto into her mouth, without looking.
JULIANNE: You think.
DIGGER: Desperate. To talk. She shovels in more drippy black goop. It is really disgusting.
JULIANNE: He's not proposing marriage, there's no way I'm buying one word of th.
DIGGER: Then why are you compulsively eating? If you're not hysterical? More goes in. Her lips and mouth completely black. Like a circus He can't do that to me!
JULIANNE: He can't do that to me!
DIGGER: We're about to find out. Ink is now dribbling out of the black hole of her mouth and down her face. She absently dabs a napkin, keeping some of it from reaching her sweater.
JULIANNE: When I turn him down. She realizes the full weight of the truth.
JULIANNE: We'll never be the same.
DIGGER: I have a suggestion.
JULIANNE: I'll have to kill myself before I call him. Staring in each other's eyes. DIGGER ( sadly ) That was it.
JULIANNE: This is awkward timing, Michael, I just joined this convent, and they never give your deposit ba. Stops. Full-length mirror. She straightens her hair, to look her Michael, I'm married. Not enough.
JULIANNE: Michael, I'm married. Not enough.
JULIANNE: . and I have two weeks to live. Changes tone.
JULIANNE: Michael, I'm trying to be gay, don't confuse me. She turns to continue pacing, and walks straight INTO a dresser. Stuns her, momentarily. Enough, already! She punches up the number, primping absently in the mirror. When it connects.
JULIANNE: I was calling Michael O'Neal, but seeing it's so late, I could just leave a mes. No such luck. Cut off. Waits. And then. JULIANNE ( soft ) Good evening, sir. You've been enrolled in the Obscene Call Of The Month Club, and th.
JULIANNE: Yeh, well my old machine kept eating messages. I tried constructively ignoring it in hopes of improvement, but finally. MICHAEL ( V.O., urgent ) Look, I have to ask you something. She swallows.
JULIANNE: I was thinking about you, and I remembered this unbelievably insane night we spent together in Tucson, like a thousand years ago? More silence. Really quiet.
JULIANNE: I mean, there's no way you could possibly remember the. MICHAEL ( V.O., soft ) Are you kidding? Stops her. Like a brick wall. The sweetness in his voice.
JULIANNE: Well, that's great. You haven't really had anybody since Dingbat MICHAEL ( V.O. ) You don't understand. I've never felt this way about anybody! Never. She sits down, hard. Right on the floor.
JULIANNE: Well, somet.
JULIANNE: Well, sure.
JULIANNE: You've met her parents. MICHAEL ( V.O., quiet ) Well. Sure. MICHAEL ( V.O. ) See. We're getting married. This Sunday. There's a knife in her heart. She can scarcely breathe.
JULIANNE: Michael, it's Wednesday night, you can't possibly be getting married on Su.
JULIANNE: ( barely audible ) . Thomas, yeh. She's staring at herself in the mirror.
JULIANNE: Well, maybe we should talk ab.
JULIANNE: MICHAEL ( V.O. ) HOLD ON Julianne. Staring in the mirror. Like watching the end of her life.
JULIANNE: OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, WHY AREN'T YOU INTERRUPTING IT TO ANSWER THE PHONE?? She holds the dress against her body. It's hot.
THE PHONE??: She holds the dress against her body. It's hot.
JULIANNE: YOU, YOU, YOU! IT'S ALL ABOUT YOU, ISN'T IT?? She clicks OFF. Checks the dress in the mirror. Raises the short skirt a little higher.
DIGGER: You can't get lung cancer and die in four days. Go to Plan B. She sucks deep. Really deep.
JULIANNE: You have no appropriate sense of emergency. My best friend is ruining his life.
DIGGER: No, he's ruining yours.
JULIANNE: Same difference. If you love someone, it's your duty to save them from themselves.
DIGGER: You have a real philosophy of It's called the Law of Love, She is tight enough to snap. And at the edge of tears. Staring out at the skycaps, clinging to her cigarette, as he eases to the DIGGER ( gently ) Why don't we have a drink? You could catch a later fl.
JULIANNE: It's called the Law of Love, She is tight enough to snap. And at the edge of tears. Staring out at the skycaps, clinging to her cigarette, as he eases to the DIGGER ( gently ) Why don't we have a drink? You could catch a later fl.
JULIANNE: I'm a busy girl. I've got four days to break up a wedding, and steal the bride's fella. She finally looks at him. He doesn't say anything.
JULIANNE: He's adored me for nine goddamn I can see why.
DIGGER: I can see why.
JULIANNE: She knows him maybe five seconds, plus she has billions of dollars, plus she's perfect, so don't go feeling sorry for Miss Pre-Teen Illinois! He's not. So her voice softens. Which shows the hurt.
JULIANNE: And don't go feeling sorry for me, you don't know me that well. We're only friends. DIGGER ( softly ) I stand corrected. Tears now. Stand in her eyes.
JULIANNE: I'm making a big mistake, huh? DIGGER ( shrugs ) Maybe you'll learn something. He wraps his hand over hers. She looks down at it.
JULIANNE: I'm gonna bring him back, man. Against all odds, y'know. Cos if I don't. She wraps her fingers around his.
JULIANNE: . I gotta live with it forever. Looks in his eyes.
JULIANNE: And at my wedding. I'll be the only bride with her own best man. And she kisses his cheek. Jumps out of his car. Before she cries. Yanks her bags from the back. Brave smile. They trade small salutes. And then she's gone.
KIMMY: This just makes everything so Her arms stay around the slightly dazed Julianne. The younger girl leans close, confides.
KIMMY: All I've heard, from the day I met Michael, is Julianne this, and Julianne that.
JULIANNE: Well, we're.
KIMMY: I think the best part of marrying this guy is finding you. Pale gray eyes. Alive with joy and intimacy.
KIMMY: I've never had a sister.
KIMMY: My heart's in my throat, here. Right off, I have to ask this monstrous favor.
JULIANNE: You need a few dollars. Kim glances over. At eighty miles an hour. A bittersweet look.
KIMMY: Dry. Just like he said. Her eyes at once admiring and regretful.
JULIANNE: Excuse me?
KIMMY: I can be quick. I can even be funny. Shakes her head. An endearing youngster.
KIMMY: But I can't be dry.
JULIANNE: Can you watch the road?
KIMMY: See. Dry. It's in the delivery. She looks back to the highway.
KIMMY: This is a very presumptuous and burdensome fav.
JULIANNE: . you want a menage on your wedding night. KIMMY ( straight back ) No, that wouldn't be burdensome. Julianne studying the delicate, angular profile. Hard not to like this kid.
KIMMY: My classmate Angelique shattered her pelvis line dancing in Abeline on Spring Break. Looks over. The sweetest smile.
KIMMY: Be my maid of honor. Julianne just blinks.
KIMMY: You can't believe what it'd cost to bring in a temp.
JULIANNE: Uh. How about promoting a bridesmaid? Someone you know for at least forty-five minutes. We CUT OFF a huge SEMI who BLASTS his horn. Kimmy fearless, oblivious, and analytical.
KIMMY: The bridesmaids are my only two female relatives under forty. Identical twin debutantes from Nashville, who are basically vengeful sluts. With amazing Which was the disqualifying The twin part. I like to remain impartial in my contempt. Sees the off-ramp, and SLICES across FOUR LANES of speeding bullets in a heart-stopping nanosecond. This kid could drive for Penske. Julianne has to pound her chest to get her heart started. Looks back to see if Michael fell out. . he is absurdly wind-blown. Gives her a beautiful grinning thumbs-up. Loves this stuff.
JULIANNE: Which was the disqualifying The twin part. I like to remain impartial in my contempt. Sees the off-ramp, and SLICES across FOUR LANES of speeding bullets in a heart-stopping nanosecond. This kid could drive for Penske. Julianne has to pound her chest to get her heart started. Looks back to see if Michael fell out. . he is absurdly wind-blown. Gives her a beautiful grinning thumbs-up. Loves this stuff.
KIMMY: The twin part. I like to remain impartial in my contempt. Sees the off-ramp, and SLICES across FOUR LANES of speeding bullets in a heart-stopping nanosecond. This kid could drive for Penske. Julianne has to pound her chest to get her heart started. Looks back to see if Michael fell out. . he is absurdly wind-blown. Gives her a beautiful grinning thumbs-up. Loves this stuff.
KIMMY: This means I have four days to make you my new best friend. Brings Julianne's eyes back.
KIMMY: And since I already know everything about you. Including intimate facts I'm mortified to have heard, but too envious to forget. It's time for you to learn about me. Easing off the freeway. She meets Julianne's glance.
KIMMY: Force yourself. To get personal. JULIANNE ( smiles ) Sounds like a plan.
KIMMY: If you'd rather the lilac. Julianne shakes her head. This one is beautiful.
JULIANNE: I thought bridesmaids had to wear the same dress.
KIMMY: Not you. You won't be comfortable unless you're distinctive. Julianne glances over.
JULIANNE: What else did he tell you.
KIMMY: . you hate weddings, you never go. Oh. Well, yeah.
KIMMY: You're not up for anything conventional, or popularly assumed to be female priorities. Including marriage. Or romance. Or even. And she stops. Not wanting to offend. JULIANNE ( quietly ) . not even love. The look holds. The seamstress keeps working, as if she's deaf.
JULIANNE: That's why Michael and I were the wrong fit. Right from the He said that, too. She stands up. Walks to the platform. Smooths her hand over the fabric down Julianne's back, along her hips. Communicating to the seamstress with her irritated expression.
KIMMY: He said that, too. She stands up. Walks to the platform. Smooths her hand over the fabric down Julianne's back, along her hips. Communicating to the seamstress with her irritated expression.
KIMMY: Well, I thought I was like you. And proud to be. Until I met rumpled, smelly old Michael. Pins start to come out. Kimmy points, these, too!
KIMMY: And then I found I was just a sentimental schmuck. Like all those flighty nitwits I'd always She leans forward. So they can look at each other.
KIMMY: Funny world, huh? Julianne swallows. It is that.
JULIANNE: I need a smoke. And before anyone can breathe, she steps OFF the platform RIPPING the living shit out of the gown, right down the side. The seam- stress' eyes FLASH OPEN in abject horror. Julianne, a deer in headlights, looks quickly around at the evidence of her screw-up in six different mirrors. Kimberly just steps to her, fingers the tear.
KIMMY: It's mostly the seam. Let's get this to Carlos. And UNZIPS Julianne down the back. In her rush to step out, Julianne STUMBLES, but her arms are pinned by the pulled-down dress and she just. . TOPPLES like a felled oak, THUDDING on her face, the gown RIPPING some more, the seamstress SCREAMING like an idiot. Then. Silence. Julianne looking up helplessly, a trussed hog, bound in her dress. KIMMY ( firm ) Like you talk to a three-year-old. Deftly, Kimmy pulls the dress free, leaving Julianne in her underwear. Signals to the seamstress, let's go.
JULIANNE: Don't you have to be somewh.
KIMMY: . just my bridal shower. And Michael has to meet our dads and the groomsmen at Comiskey for a one-thirty game. Opens the door.
KIMMY: Other than that. Closed SOLID. Gone.
JULIANNE: Come in, and shut the. Stops. Because it's Michael who has entered. With the dress.
JULIANNE: . door. So he does. She flushes and SNATCHES up her own clothes, which were characteristically tangled in a heap, and tries desperately to untangle them enough to cover herself. He is amazed and amused by her embarrassment. MICHAEL ( laughing ) Should I turn around, or someth.
JULIANNE: Michael, I'm in my underwear! She's TEARING at her clothes, only making more of a mess.
MICHAEL: We've seen each other a lot more naked than this. She seems ready to rip her clothes apart, so he gently takes them from her hands. She tries to stand unselfconsciously as he easily untangles them.
MICHAEL: I mean, we were skinny-dipping in Greece, just as pals, less than two years ago. She GRABS the clothes and covers the front of herself. Looking at him with a mix of emotions she couldn't begin to sort out.
JULIANNE: Things are different now. He looks in her eyes. And nods, a little sadly. Guess they are. MICHAEL ( softly ) Well. I leave with two thoughts in my mind. He walks to the door. Puts his hand on the latch. Looks back. MICHAEL ( even softer ) You're still a very pretty The look holds. And holds. There is such feeling on both sides, she doesn't know what to make of it. She swallows.
JULIANNE: What's the sec.
MICHAEL: And he's gone. She looks around at six different VIEWS of her uncovered backside. Hmm.
JULIANNE: . luckiest guy in the Northern Fucking Hemisphere, is all I'm s.
KIMMY: What? Because I'm a little . most sentimental schmucks I pity want a honeymoon after their wedding. Just to top it off. The valet gives Kimmy her ticket.
JULIANNE: . most sentimental schmucks I pity want a honeymoon after their wedding. Just to top it off. The valet gives Kimmy her ticket.
KIMMY: I can't expect the NBA to hold up the playoffs. They're walking fast toward the garage elevators.
KIMMY: I'm excited Sports Illustrated gave him this kind of shot, he's only there a ye.
JULIANNE: So your honeymoon is exactly where? It depends. If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento, we could start there. Or Phoenix. Or depending on Indiana- . garden sports, all. Little swing of maybe fifty degrees Fahrenheit, represents a packing challenge, but there's fine food and cocktails at a choice of Embassy Suit. At the elevator. Kimmy SLAMS the button.
KIMMY: It depends. If San Antonio sweeps Sacramento, we could start there. Or Phoenix. Or depending on Indiana- . garden sports, all. Little swing of maybe fifty degrees Fahrenheit, represents a packing challenge, but there's fine food and cocktails at a choice of Embassy Suit. At the elevator. Kimmy SLAMS the button.
JULIANNE: . garden sports, all. Little swing of maybe fifty degrees Fahrenheit, represents a packing challenge, but there's fine food and cocktails at a choice of Embassy Suit. At the elevator. Kimmy SLAMS the button.
KIMMY: It's his career, I'm supportive. Look, I've been everywhere, I've seen the world, I've laid on a beach. I want to be with the man I love. That's what makes it a honeymoon. End of story. Okay?
JULIANNE: I'm just saying he's lucky. An empty elevator arrives. They get in.
JULIANNE: Takes one woman in a billion to put up with his array of shit. The guy is a one-man festival of Kimmy SLAMS the penthouse button. Looks at her calmly. Go on.
JULIANNE: Well. You've been introduced to the symphonic range of.
KIMMY: . his snoring, yeah. He says it's worse than ever. That snaffle one.? Julianne imitates an incredibly annoying high-pitched SNARL. Three times. Kimmy nods.
KIMMY: Well now it has this sorta phlegm rattle behind it. Stopped at the lobby. A family of four gets in. Oblivious, Kimmy DEMONSTRATES the phlegm rattle. Really gets into it. As the family watches, Julianne tries her own version. Like that? No. More like this. The family is looking at each other.
KIMMY: Guess what? Earplugs work. How about.
JULIANNE: How about.
KIMMY: . cigars in bed? I broke him on that. But the bathroom's a swamp, he wears Reeboks to dinner, tells the same, admittedly funny, jokes three hundred times. Sucks in a breath.
KIMMY: . loves action movies, subscribes to Playboy for godsake, reads over my shoulder, can't keep track of the checks he writes. Ninth floor. The family gets out. The door closes.
KIMMY: He sucks soup through his front teeth.
JULIANNE: A trademark move, don't touch But he sure can kiss.
KIMMY: But he sure can kiss.
JULIANNE: It's been awhile. I'll take your word.
KIMMY: After two weeks of cataloguing all his faults, I made a command decision that changed my life. She SLAMS the EMERGENCY STOP button. We JOLT to a halt.
KIMMY: I threw the list away. Shakes her head.
KIMMY: He's not a balance sheet, so many wonderful qualities, so many faults. He's Michael. From her heart.
KIMMY: And loving him means loving all of this.
JULIANNE: Do you get nervous in small confined spaces?
KIMMY: So it's sweet of you to be Let me rephrase that.
JULIANNE: Let me rephrase that.
KIMMY: But nothing ever could, ever did, give me a moment's pause about this marriage.
JULIANNE: Do you get hysterical in small confined spa.
KIMMY: . except one. Julianne's face. Stops.
JULIANNE: Oh, yeah? Kimmy nods. Confides.
KIMMY: A stopper.
KIMMY: You'll always be there. In his mind. The perfect creature he loved for all those y.
JULIANNE: Well, perfection can get wearing after whi.
KIMMY: I'm not joking. I had to face up to all my competitive drives, and believe me, I've got 'em.
JULIANNE: And the answer was so simple.
KIMMY: And the answer was so simple.
JULIANNE: I was gonna predict that.
KIMMY: You win. Julianne blinks. Excuse me?
KIMMY: You're enshrined in his heart and memory. Unassailable. Which works out great.
JULIANNE: I've missed a step.
KIMMY: He has you on a pedestal. And me in his arms. Oh. Julianne smiles. LUNGES for the EMERGENCY button, YANKING it so hard it comes OFF in her hand. A terrifying BUZZER ensures.
JULIANNE: Jesus, we're trapped!
KIMMY: No, this happened to me once, almost, it was excruciating! Begins BANGING random buttons, out of control. Kimmy watching this. Julianne looks WILDLY up.
JULIANNE: No, this happened to me once, almost, it was excruciating! Begins BANGING random buttons, out of control. Kimmy watching this. Julianne looks WILDLY up.
JULIANNE: There's a panel up there, you could boost me. RIPPING off her platform shoes.
JULIANNE: You know how little air is in these things? I've seen statistics! Once you're trapped between floors. Kimmy taps her. Points to the lighted panel. It says PH, they've reached the Penthouse.
JULIANNE: God! Then the door is jammed! Takes a heavy platform and begins BANGING the metal door with all her strength, sending resounding BOOMS throughout the area, as Kimmy reaches and. . presses DOOR OPEN. The metal doors part, opening directly onto the banquet room, just as a mighty blow comes down, and the platform FLIES from Julianne's hand straight BETWEEN. . two identical stunning YOUNG WOMEN, serving as twin hostesses for the shower. A beat of mutually-stupefied looks, and we hear the shoe CRASH somewhere, to a small spattering of SHRIEKS.
MANDY: Mah Gawd, it's the bride, and the woman she'll nevah live up to! KIMMY ( mutters to Julianne ) That would be us.
SAMMY: Did she say th' wrong thang agin? It is so in character! AMANDA and SAMANTHA NEWHOUSE, 19-year-old twins. True Southern belles, with the faces of angels and bodies made for hot oil wrestling. Mandy's hair is dyed ash blonde, Sammy's is amber. Otherwise, the experience is similar.
JULIANNE: ( thrusts out her hand ) I'm Julianne Potter, and.
SAMMY: . we'd be the vengeful sluts. We came in complementary colors.
MANDY: Have you sized up the groomsmen, Jules? As M. of H., you get first fuck. Don't pick the short, hairy, rich one.
JULIANNE: . unless he has a hump. The girls cast identical blank looks at Kimberly. KIMMY ( to the sluts ) Dry. I told you.
ISABELLE: I'm Isabelle Wallace, and my handsome new son scarcely did you justice, girl. She takes both of Julianne's hands, and our heroine is sort of magically charmed. As if touched by Glinda the Good Witch of the Now, my husband says to scoot you over to the ballpark, so you can hang with Michael. But first, you have to meet a lot of really old women. Looking warmly in her eyes.
ISABELLE: Now, my husband says to scoot you over to the ballpark, so you can hang with Michael. But first, you have to meet a lot of really old women. Looking warmly in her eyes.
ISABELLE: That is, if you've absorbed enough profanity. Flicks a glance at the twins. Leads Julianne off. MANDY ( O.S., pouting ) We sayed one fuck.
JULIANNE: Desperate measures! Do you hear me? Digger, are you the. SQUAWK. Static. Then.
JULIANNE: I don't know, hit men, whoopee cushions, saltpeter, something! The girl is impossibly impregnable. Even I want her to get the guy!! Tell him the what? The truth.?? She shakes her head. What a guy.
JULIANNE: Tell him the what? The truth.?? She shakes her head. What a guy.
JULIANNE: That desperate. May I never get.
JULIANNE: Which of you gents ordered two beers? One single tray. Holding fourteen beers. Balancing on one hand. Michael JUMPS UP, terrified at the impending mayhem this sight Wow! Lemme give you a ha. JULIANNE ( sweetly ) Michael. You'll unwittingly imply that I'm clumsy. He stops in his tracks. The guys whistle.
MICHAEL: Wow! Lemme give you a ha. JULIANNE ( sweetly ) Michael. You'll unwittingly imply that I'm clumsy. He stops in his tracks. The guys whistle.
MICHAEL: Think of that. And as well as I know you. She goes first to the bodyguard.
BODYGUARD: Sorry, ma'am, I'm on duty. JULIANNE ( lovely smile ) It's Miss. And thanks. That leaves two for me. Heads down the row.
MICHAEL: Julianne Potter, this is Hank and Gerry from SI, and you know She's nodding, flawlessly plucking two beers each from perimeter of the tray, keeping the rest perfectly balanced in the center. Michael is flat dumbstruck. Next, a tall patrician gentleman with rolled-up sleeves on his hand-stitched silk shirt.
MICHAEL: Oh. This is my father-in-law, Once again, she gracefully plucks two beers for the distinguished How are you doing this? You're on drugs. Sets them down. The man has a smile wonderful in its ease. If he gives you grief, I'll have him skillfully beaten, where the wounds won't show.
MICHAEL: How are you doing this? You're on drugs. Sets them down. The man has a smile wonderful in its ease. If he gives you grief, I'll have him skillfully beaten, where the wounds won't show.
WALTER: If he gives you grief, I'll have him skillfully beaten, where the wounds won't show.
JULIANNE: I guess getting him whacked would be politically out of the question.
WALTER: Under the circumstances. Charmed to know you, Jules.
JULIANNE: Nice meeting you, too, Walt. A nod between equals. She moves on.
MICHAEL: And, this guy, you know. She sure does, and effortlessly balancing her one-hand load, she dips to kiss a porky, balding guy with big-time shoulders. Straight on the lips.
JULIANNE: Papa Joe. They go way back. He is uncomfortable at this rich man's wedding, even as gracious as everyone has been. His watering eyes twinkle at her, and the voice has a trace of Boston.
JOE: You gonna be my boy's best man? Despite SHOUTS from the others.
JULIANNE: Best everything, Joe. But I'm going to dance with you.
MICHAEL: Dance? You don't dance! You learn to dance?? Her innocent smile.
JULIANNE: Moves. You've never seen. BIG reaction from the guys, as she heads toward Michael with the last of the beers, not looking down at the FIELDER'S MITT which lies right in her path, and as his lips part to scream a warning, she skips. . neatly AROUND it. He's in shock.
MICHAEL: You're an impostor! What have you done with my best friend? As he takes away the remaining beers.
MICHAEL: And how was the hot dog? Hot dog? His eyes fix on her left breast. HUGE mustard stain. She can't believe it.
MICHAEL: Cheap and unnecessary. We were looking anyway.
JULIANNE: I just admire your maturity, that's all. I mean, there are people who would find that kind of perfection boring. Day after day, year after year.
MICHAEL: . see, that's what I thought at first. How can you like someone that perfect? No potential for long-range livability. Drinking their beers. Side by side. Both stare only at the game.
MICHAEL: Luckily. The closer I watched, the more the fault came into focus. Each imperfection its own adorable slice of vulnerability.
JULIANNE: Such as.
MICHAEL: She's too genuine.
JULIANNE: Hate that.
MICHAEL: How can you trust someone you can never mistrust?
JULIANNE: What's next? Keep sipping. Never look at each other.
MICHAEL: No matter how many times I leave the toilet seat up, she forgets and puts it down.
JULIANNE: Endearingly absent-minded.
MICHAEL: My very point. Here's another one. Shakes his head. This one really gets him.
MICHAEL: Every day. She makes the bed.
JULIANNE: Quite the little eccentric.
MICHAEL: At first, I thought it was a gag, but she's always done it! This is not the ammunition Julianne was hoping for.
JULIANNE: Is there a coup de grace in here, somewh.
MICHAEL: She admires. Tommy Lasorda.
JULIANNE: Waiter! Check, please!
MICHAEL: She finds him "personable."
JULIANNE: Can that kind of defect be passed on genetically? She looks over now. And Michael is looking back. Smiling the most wonderful smile. Her reaction shows that she thinks it's for her, Then again. She has a few good Hating herself for asking, but seeing no way out.
MICHAEL: Then again. She has a few good Hating herself for asking, but seeing no way out.
JULIANNE: Gimme like, eight and nine off the top ten list.
MICHAEL: First girl I ever knew. Who lets me give her a bath. The look in his eyes. She can hardly bear it.
MICHAEL: And when I hug her, even in public. I don't have to let go right away. She lets me hold her as long as I want. He seems so deeply in love.
MICHAEL: Nice kid, don't you think? A beat. A slow nod. A quiet.
JULIANNE: Looks like, from here.
JULIANNE: How'd you find this pl. Kim shaking her head. Looks admiringly to Michael.
KIMMY: Lived here my whole life, never heard of it. Until our first date. She reaches slender fingers. Traces one back along his hair.
KIMMY: He finds all these spots, everywhere he goes, it's a mystical gift. MICHAEL ( shy ) Jesus, one d-back from the Bears knows a place.
KIMMY: It's not just clubs. This guy always knows the best everything. The best guitar store, the best beef ribs, the best Horowitz record, was he always like the.
JULIANNE: . always. The best dim sum, the best camping stuff.
KIMMY: Stop, we're embarrassing h.
JULIANNE: . best valley in New Zealand, best. women's shoes.
MICHAEL: I tried those on. When you weren't looking. Now he's grinning at Julianne. And she likes that a lot.
JULIANNE: Where was that, Florence, huh?
MICHAEL: Together in the memory. As Kimmy watches.
JULIANNE: The Vespa? Me hanging on behind in the rain all night?
MICHAEL: Till the gas ran out. And, the first sniff of left-out.
KIMMY: I love Florence. Julianne's eyes flicker. Could this be a teensy opening? Keeps her eyes, her easy smile, and her killer instincts trained on Take her there. He nods, okay.
JULIANNE: Take her there. He nods, okay.
JULIANNE: I mean, now. She's perky, she deserves a honeymoon. He draws a breath.
JULIANNE: I heard. If San Antone sweeps Sacramento. What is this shit? You gotta get off the road by September anyway, when does Fall Quarter start? And the happy couple look at each other. They are awkward. Julianne's heart soar like eagle.
KIMMY: Uh. I'm not coming back. For senior year. Could this be. The Mother Lode?
JULIANNE: Don't architects find a degree, sort of. an asset? The couple still staring in each other's eyes.
KIMMY: Well, the school will be here. Architecture will still be around. Right now.
MICHAEL: I travel every week. College ball, motor sports, training The most important thing. Is being together. And she smiles. Beautifully.
KIMMY: The most important thing. Is being together. And she smiles. Beautifully.
KIMMY: I'm just a baby. I've got all. the time. in the world.
MICHAEL: Because I could come.
KIMMY: To the twins' soiree? So they can paw you and drool.? JULIANNE ( calls out, helpful ) They're gonna drool anyway! Kim smiles. He kisses her, tenderly, through the open window. She waves past him at Julianne. KIMMY ( to both ) Enjoy each other. And drives off. As he watches after, Julianne comes up behind him. Slips her hand up onto his shoulder muscle. Starts giving a little Should I whistle down a cab?
JULIANNE: Should I whistle down a cab?
MICHAEL: Hey, cabs are expensive. I'm cheap, remember? Turns his head, to see her. She's still rubbing his shoulder.
JULIANNE: Sometimes. About the dumbest Share a smile. As always, it covers a lot of years.
MICHAEL: The El's right down the street. Unless you're afraid of the She looks around. It is an issue. But she remembers.
JULIANNE: No. I'm always safe with you. She means that. He takes her by the hand. They begin walking.
JULIANNE: Pretty amazing girl, you've got. Make that kind of sacrifice.
MICHAEL: What, leaving school.
JULIANNE: . all of it. She's leaving her family, her friends, everything she knows. She's putting her career on hold, and she seems a pretty ambitious, driven, kind of pers. MICHAEL ( quietly ) In her way.
JULIANNE: All to follow you in this dumb job, where you travel 52 weeks a year to College Station, Texas, and such. It's not a job for a grown man, Michael, Peter Pan never married. He's let go of her hand now. Looking down at the pavement before him, fists in his jacket pockets. JULIANNE ( softly ) I don't think she's naturally the. submissive type. Aren't you afraid she's gonna choke on this stand-by-your-man shit after awhi. MICHAEL ( real quiet ) Hit a nerve. This is promising.
JULIANNE: I mean Walter owns the Sox, cable sports. most girls in her spot would be angling to get Daddy to offer you some juicy gig right here in t.
MICHAEL: She would never. Never. Even think of that. Paydirt. Julianne's Geiger Counter is going berserk.
JULIANNE: I guess you're right. That would be deceitful. manipulative. controlling. emascula.
MICHAEL: I got the point. He looks over at her. No smile on his face. An edge we haven't seen. She shrugs.
JULIANNE: Still. All's fair in love and That would be a girl. I don't even know. They've reached the stairs to the El. A rickety train RATTLES above them. As they start up, she slips her arm around his JULIANNE ( murmurs ) Forgive me, okay? I was talkin' He slides his arm around her shoulder. Pals. They climb out of INT. HOTEL BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT CLOSE on a shallow pool of water in a bathroom sink. Green powder pouring in, a hand SWIRLING it around, until.
MICHAEL: That would be a girl. I don't even know. They've reached the stairs to the El. A rickety train RATTLES above them. As they start up, she slips her arm around his JULIANNE ( murmurs ) Forgive me, okay? I was talkin' He slides his arm around her shoulder. Pals. They climb out of INT. HOTEL BATHROOM - LATE NIGHT CLOSE on a shallow pool of water in a bathroom sink. Green powder pouring in, a hand SWIRLING it around, until.
JULIANNE: Dig, of course. Of course, of course, of course, of course I have a plan. Certainment! More green slime. The Julianne we know disappears.
JULIANNE: How? I ask myself, what would Lucy Ricardo do in this situa. Desecrates three hotel towels, wiping her hand.
JULIANNE: Well, one worked, once. THROWS them in the bathtub. Fastidiousness a short suit.
JULIANNE: Ricky wouldn't let her in the show. Reaches for her toothbrush, absently. All her attention is on the conversation and the hideous green face in the mirror.
JULIANNE: I recall it differently, but we digress. Without looking, picks up a tube of hotel shampoo.
JULIANNE: So in the version, you're Ethel, with better fashion instincts. Squeezes it all over the toothbrush.
JULIANNE: This puts you in charge of Plan B, the unprincipled and insanely dangerous back-up plan. Lifts it toward her mouth, liquid shampoo dripping from the In case simple lying doesn't work. At the last second. She stops. We don't know why, because she's still never looked at the brush.
JULIANNE: In case simple lying doesn't work. At the last second. She stops. We don't know why, because she's still never looked at the brush.
JULIANNE: Question. What happens if you brush your teeth with shampoo? Turns on the tap. Tries to scrub the toothbrush clean, and DROPS the phone into the green swamp, which SPATTERS all over her front. Euucch. She's stymied, agitated, circling the sink, leaning down to it.
JULIANNE: HOLD ON. I'M COMING IN FOR YOU! She sets the toothbrush down in her toiletries kit. Decides to YANK on the phone's cord, and the receiver SPRINGS out, BOPPING her in the face. She's so filthy at this point, she just wipes it clean on her nightshirt. Tells Digger.
JULIANNE: You okay? This is one of those problem phones. Lifts the toothbrush and tube of paste from her kit.
JULIANNE: Right. Your role. You know guys from Sports Illustrated, yes? I mean, you can walk right in there. Squeezes on the paste, lifts the brush to her mouth.
JULIANNE: You could get access to letterhead, for example. JAMS it in her mouth, brushing as. JULIANNE ( mouthful ) . or even, maybe, their fax. Stops. The funniest look on her face. Down to the toothpaste Which says BEN GAY. INT. TIFFANY'S - MORNING Julianne and Kimmy cruise the stately display cases. Everywhere, the Tiffany logo, the silent, watchful staff in morning coats. As they browse, Julianne takes a blueberry Danish from a paper sack, and begins to eat. The staff notices. So does Kim.
JULIANNE: It's an homage thing. Awkward girls grow up on Audrey Hepburn movies. You wouldn't Kimmy doesn't. But wipes a blue glob from Julianne's face.
JULIANNE: Awkward girls grow up on Audrey Hepburn movies. You wouldn't Kimmy doesn't. But wipes a blue glob from Julianne's face.
KIMMY: Anyway, I think you're wrong. What you were saying before. About Michael's job.
KIMMY: What you were saying before. About Michael's job.
KIMMY: About Michael's job.
JULIANNE: Oh, that. I forgot I even said I just think you're wrong, is all.
KIMMY: I just think you're wrong, is all.
JULIANNE: Probably am. Forget I brought it Points to some jade pins. Kimmy wrinkles her nose.
KIMMY: I mean, he loves his job.
JULIANNE: Bad games, bad towns, bad pay, bad flights, bad hotels, real bad food. Homeless, rootless, lonely, maybe your copy gets into one issue out of four. What's not to love? None of this is lost on Kimmy. She's wondered the same.
JULIANNE: What's not to love? None of this is lost on Kimmy. She's wondered the same.
KIMMY: But he always says.
JULIANNE: . whatever is manly and Kim nods slowly. Way ahead of her.
JULIANNE: Why would he trade that for running, say, a big piece of the PR at a powerful, complex, challenging conglomerate like your dad's? Kim stares back. A strange look.
KIMMY: That's just the sort of thing my father and I discussed. Julianne just blinks. Amazed.
JULIANNE: I'm not stupid. Say, how about this? Pointing to tiny golden scissors in the novelty case. Kim so absorbed by the main topic, she has to force herself to focus on.
KIMMY: For the twins? What in the world is th.
JULIANNE: Gold nose hair clippers. Points to the tiny hand-lettered sign. Indeed. Kimmy shrugs, not quite it.
KIMMY: So you don't think Michael's as happy with his job as. Julianne points to a matched pair of large.
KIMMY: Gold dog collars? They don't have dogs.
JULIANNE: Kim nods, oh. But can't keep her mind off.
KIMMY: You think he'd accept? Michael. A job like that. Oh, well.
KIMMY: Michael. A job like that. Oh, well.
JULIANNE: By any yardstick that involves sanity, it would be the greatest thing that ever happened to him. Present company excepted. Kimmy nodding slowly. Her yearing achingly apparent.
JULIANNE: On the other hand, he's proud. Last thing a man wants to admit, is being trapped in a dispiriting dead-end job that can never support a family. A very sweet smile.
JULIANNE: Throw a man a life preserver. He'll say, "Thanks, anyway, I'd rather drown." Kim nods again. Right. They are so bonded at this moment.
KIMMY: So. one almost has to.
JULIANNE: Exactly what?
KIMMY: Exactly what?
JULIANNE: What you said. Make it appear that he's doing you the favor. Kimmy bites her lip. Her eyes go down. Self-conscious to admit.
JULIANNE: I couldn't really. do that. After, you know. Her voice trails off. JULIANNE ( kind, but wise ) . lying. All the time. That brings the gray eyes up. Julianne bats her dark ones.
JULIANNE: Oh, darling, my pitiful desires and ambitions are dirt beneath the manly boots of your priorities! Kimmy has to smile small. A self-awe gal. JULIANNE ( pouring it on ) Two hundred seedy motels a year? Dinners out of vending machines? Waiting for you in vermin-infested corridors of dark crotch-rot locker rooms? This stuff makes me hot!!
KIMMY: The very words I've used. Julianne 'thinks it over.' Kimmy waits for guidance.
JULIANNE: We make Dad your co-conspirator. Michael does a favor for Walter. Walter's reorganizing his public relations, needs a brilliant guy who's close to him, who he can completely trust. Kimmy nodding. Hope overriding reason.
JULIANNE: Walter's reorganizing his public relations, needs a brilliant guy who's close to him, who he can completely trust. Kimmy nodding. Hope overriding reason.
JULIANNE: So you beg. Michael, please do this for Daddy, please, please, please, blah, blah, blah. it's only for six months. it would mean so much to me to help him out. Turns up her palms. Viola!
KIMMY: He'll see right through it.
JULIANNE: Only. If he wants to. They share a smile.
JULIANNE: In six months, he'll be happy, settled, successful.
KIMMY: He won't get mad, huh?
JULIANNE: Bridesmaid gifts for two, well, assertive, outspoken, Tennessee KIMMY ( still focused ) He won't be mad? JULIANNE ( to Mooney ) Nothing here seems to quite capture their distinctive personalities.
JULIANNE: Could you do this. Tossing an object on the counter.
JULIANNE: In 24 carat? It is a MASTERCARD. A gold one. KIMMY ( softly ) They smile at each other. More bonded than ever.
KIMMY: You don't think he'll be mad. A beat. Can Julianne even make herself do this?
JULIANNE: Your call. You can live a lie. In a fabulous selection of Red Roof Inns. Or you can make one desperate stab at hap.
KIMMY: I just don't want to freak him What do you think? Julianne stares into the soft gray eyes. It's now or never. The smile of a dear sister.
JULIANNE: How mad could he get?
MAITRE D': Oh, Mr. Wallace and his guests have retired to the humidor. Points to an escalator, leading to the mezzanine. Behind a glass wall, what looks like a British men's club. Thirty guys and a billion cigars. As Julianne starts toward it.
MAITRE D': Oh. Mademoiselle. She turns back. Loves this shit.
MAITRE D': It's unofficial, of course. But, traditionally, the humidor is for gentlemen, only.
JULIANNE: Great. I've got this girlfriend at the Justice Department? With all this time on her hands? Her look is every bit as hard as his. He gestures to the escalator. She takes Kimmy's hand, and up they go. We can see Walter in a big leather chair, enjoying a major stogie. Kimmy licks her lips. They enter. Every head turns. A nice range of reactions, from offended to attracted and points in between. JULIANNE ( murmurs ) Piece of cake. I'll hang, and think happy thoughts. Kimmy nods. Heads over toward her father. Julianne walks, confidently, even provocatively, to the wall lined with bins of cigars. Every eye in the place is on her butt. She runs her fingers over a few contenders. Plucks one out, examines it, puts it back. Walks a little farther. Selects another, big and black. Rolls it expertly in her fingers. Sniffs along its length. A guy comes over. Could be 40, successful, a broker's pin-stripe. Nearly as attractive as he thinks he is.
GUY: Know what you're looking for, little lady? Little lady, huh? She glances at his coven of buddies, who pretend not to notice. Then, straight to the guy's blue eyes.
JULIANNE: Yeah. Do you?
GUY: I asked first. Ah. Wit. She holds up her cigar.
JULIANNE: I like 'em long and hard. Kind of. big around. Runs it under her nose.
JULIANNE: Smell is important, I'm a believer in that. Takes a match from a cut crystal bowl.
JULIANNE: But you never know what you've got. Till you run your tongue over it. And she does. Moistening the full length of the cigar. The boys are laughing openly. She STRIKES the match. As she lights up.
GUY: I meant. What you're looking for in a man. She glances at his wedding ring. Then, straight into his eyes.
JULIANNE: Actually, I'm partial to married The way she says that. The guy swallows. We can see some of the air has been sucked from the room.
GUY: Why is that?
JULIANNE: It's so much time. When I phone the wives. Explosive LAUGHTER from the peanut gallery. As she jams the big Clemente Churchill into her mouth, she sees Kimmy waving her over from across the room. Without even looking at the guy she's just put away. . she crosses the room, Walter stands politely, looking very dapper, very powerful, and focusing on her with considerable interest. He waits until she sits on the edge of a costly leather Your idea? She can't read this guy. Maybe that's how he built an empire. She nods, yeah.
WALTER: ( simply ) Your idea? She can't read this guy. Maybe that's how he built an empire. She nods, yeah.
WALTER: You're a woman of insight. He sits on the arm of his chair. Close enough to speak quietly.
WALTER: My wife and I love this marriage, and deplore its circumstances. He puffs his cigar. Julianne puffs her. Kimmy looks on, a kid watching the grown-ups.
WALTER: As you guessed, my daughter is unhappy about giving up her life. And, in my opinion, cowardly in avoiding the necessary confrontation. Then he stops. As if reading Julianne's eyes.
WALTER: Mike has a world of ability. I'd do anything to have him in my company. One more puff.
WALTER: Except ask him. Julianne is a little stunned. Kimmy looks helpless.
WALTER: He'd resent it. And me. And, most important, Kim. No smile on his lips. Straight talk.
WALTER: He's a great kid, but he's still a kid. Instead of recognizing that his resistance comes from insecurity, he'd turn it to anger. To protect himself. Spreads his hands.
WALTER: . from realizing that he's ignoring my daughter's needs, despite how very much he loves her. He looks to his daughter now.
WALTER: They both have some growing up to do. But they're good people, they're starting with love. They've got time.
JULIANNE: ( softly ) I think you're making a mistake, His eyes come back to her. A little sharply.
WALTER: And that interests me. How someone who knows him so well could be so wrong. A formidable guy. She meets his gaze.
JULIANNE: See, I love him, too, as much as anyone here. And for a whole lot longer. From her heart.
JULIANNE: I think I know best what would make him happy.
JULIANNE: Okay, okay, okay, okay, I hear you, all right? She closes her eyes.
JULIANNE: It is stupid, dishonest, desperate beyond belief, and can't possibly ever work. It can only end in humiliation and disgrace. Now can I say two words? Deep drag on the cigarette. For strength.
JULIANNE: Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it! Do it! She's striped her gears. COUGHS horribly.
JULIANNE: All right, twelve words.
TEENAGER: ( supportive ) You do it, girl. Julianne nods to the kids. They nod back. Damn straight. She exits the restroom, into. . glaring sunlight. We are in the middle of the BROOKFIELD ZOO. And sitting on a bench, eating popcorn from a bag.
MICHAEL: Wow. What was going on in She shudders.
JULIANNE: Some crazy person.
MICHAEL: You're not eating.
JULIANNE: I never eat when I'm serene.
MICHAEL: You never eat when you're I switched that around when you weren't looking. She swirls a single nacho chip in cheese. But her heart isn't in it.
JULIANNE: I switched that around when you weren't looking. She swirls a single nacho chip in cheese. But her heart isn't in it.
MICHAEL: Last zoo we were in was. Beijing, yeah? Sure. The rhinos were fucking.
JULIANNE: Boy, those were the days. And when she looks over. His eyes are waiting.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Yeah, they were. They're passing the hippo pen. But they don't notice.
JULIANNE: That was nice. The way you said that. So was that. He's feeling restless, something. Doesn't know quite what to say.
MICHAEL: It's weird being the groom. All these things Kimmy has to take care of.
JULIANNE: You need a baby-sitter. That's what I'm here for. He holds her eyes. Then looks down. Awkward. And the way he's doing it begins to excite her.
JULIANNE: Say it. He looks up, neither one of them noticing that as they walk, she is about to. . CRASH into a chest-high metal stand that displays animal facts. We have followed him as she is WIPED from frame. His face from shock. to amusement.
MICHAEL: Now, there's my girl. . to tenderness. PAN back to see her wearing everything from her cardboard container. Nachos, fudge sauce, Diet Coke, the works. It is really awful. Kids, bystanders, laughing cruelly. Her eyes fill with tears, and she tries bravely to smile against it.
JULIANNE: See, I can only do it with He takes out his handkerchief. And with that and his hands, gently scoops the worst of the mess off her. The fact that he's touching her breasts and her body is something they pretend not to notice. She laughs softly, and a few tears fall, even though she doesn't know why. Such an odd, raw, confusing moment. To the world looking on, they are lovers.
MICHAEL: ( murmurs ) See, better already. And he kisses her face. Not quite her lips. But only an inch away. We can feel her heart pounding. He strips off his shirt, only a tank top underneath.
MICHAEL: We'll go back to the bathroom, you'll put this on. Okay? She sniffles, okay. Swallows.
JULIANNE: Bet you're glad I'm here to take care of you. He puts his arm around her.
MICHAEL: Bet I am. Holds her close, as they start toward the restroom.
MICHAEL: Hope that crazy person's not still there. We're on their backs.
JULIANNE: ( whispers ) Is anybody watching?
WALTER: I hope so. This is all too mysterious to waste on just me. She reaches into her big bag. Pulls out a single folded sheet of I picked up Michael's messages for him, at our hotel. I stole His face darkens. The easy smile fades. He holds up his palms.
JULIANNE: I picked up Michael's messages for him, at our hotel. I stole His face darkens. The easy smile fades. He holds up his palms.
WALTER: Julianne, reading my son-in-law's mail, is not something.
JULIANNE: Sir, this is important! Haven't you ever in your life cut one corner, to make something important turn out right? His smile returns. Just a little.
WALTER: Matter of fact, that's how I got The look holds. She thrusts the paper out. He still doesn't take It's a fax from Sports Illustrated from Ben Isaacson, Michael's boss.
JULIANNE: It's a fax from Sports Illustrated from Ben Isaacson, Michael's boss.
WALTER: ( quickly ) I know Ben. She opens the paper.
JULIANNE: "Mike. We still have no answer to our E-mail of Wednesday. Which option do you select? I don't mean to rush you, but Personnel needs to tie up the loose ends." He takes the paper. We see it now. Looks authentic.
JULIANNE: I think he's been fired.
WALTER: It doesn't say th.
JULIANNE: He's said some things over the past few weeks. Look, this is why I came up with the idea of you offering him a job. He looks up. He's listening. Closely.
JULIANNE: And why I couldn't say anything before in front of Kim. She bites her lip. Seems so earnest.
JULIANNE: I just think of how. desperate he must be feeling. He's marrying a rich man's daughter, and he's about to become destitute. You know the kind of job market he'll be facing? He does.
WALTER: And you think he's kept this to He's too proud to beg for help. And if you wait till this comes out, your offer will be like charity. Completely humiliating. He's staring at her. But his mind is working behind his eyes.
JULIANNE: He's too proud to beg for help. And if you wait till this comes out, your offer will be like charity. Completely humiliating. He's staring at her. But his mind is working behind his eyes.
JULIANNE: If you do it now, it's like he's helping you. He can accept with He taps the paper with the back of his knuckles.
WALTER: This fax could mean. any number of things. She nods. She knows that.
WALTER: ( softly ) Maybe. I should call Ben.
JULIANNE: Then it could all come out, sooner or later. Nobody should be in on this. Just you and me. Or, more correctly, I. She takes the paper back.
JULIANNE: What if, what if I could find that E-mail? The long straight look. Maybe he's hooked.
JULIANNE: I never noticed. Kimmy has your INT. LOBBY, RITZ CARLTON HOTEL - TWILIGHT Tall, gangly, young DESK CLERK. Lank hair, pimples. He looks up, beams to see.
JULIANNE: Hello, again. She's flirting her ass off.
JULIANNE: You still haven't straightened that tie. And she reaches across the desk with her lovely, slender hands. Does it for him. Her fingers brush his chest on the way back. We can assume a woody.
JULIANNE: You know, my friend, the one whose message I picked up. ? He does. His eyes flick toward his stately female SUPERVISOR, helping another guest across the way.
JULIANNE: Well, he's still with the wedding party. And he asked me to get something he needs real badly from his room. ? The boy swallows hard.
JULIANNE: He's in 1526. If you could just let me ha.
BOY: See that woman? Not only does Julianne see her. The woman is looking back, while she's talking to her customer. Not a pleasant look.
BOY: She said, if I ever pull a stunt like that again.
JULIANNE: You'll lose your job.
BOY: . tear my pecker off. Is what she said.
JULIANNE: Help me! The maid can only blink.
JULIANNE: I locked myself out, 1526, please And looks frantically up the hall, mortified that any moment a stranger could happen upon her predicament. Her eyes dart back to the maid. PLEASE. The maid just stares. Stares.
JULIANNE: INT. MICHAEL'S ROOM - TWILIGHT Julianne alone in his room, looking around frantically. No worries about this guy making his bed every day, stuff, clothes, strewn everywhere, the bathroom looks like a cherry bomb just detonated. She's tramping through a bachelor's debris, wearing only her towel, looking, looking. There it is. The corner of his LAPTOP sticking out from beneath a discarded bedspread. She SNATCHES it up, OPENS it, sets it on the cluttered desk, and. . stops. There are wallet-sized SNAPSHOTS of Kimmy. Some alone. Some as a little girl. Some with Michael. And next to them. . the plastic fold-out wallet inset. That he has not yet quite rearranged. So she picks it up. Leafs through, until she finds what she was praying would be there. . Julianne grinning. Michael's arm around her. On the deck of a boat. They have drinks in their hands. Happiness in their eyes. And she stares at it. Jesus, God, how long has he carried this around? She flips through further, all the rest have her in them. Maybe half a dozen. Her heart is throbbing. Her eyes are damp. Back to the one on the boat. She slips it from the plastic window. Holds it. Then, gently. . puts it back where it belongs. PUNCHES up the goddamn laptop. This is it, girl! Do or die.
JULIANNE: ( murmurs ) You wouldn't change your password, would you? You never change anything. Those words make her bite her lip. Damn, I'm becoming a senti- mental slob. TYPES in.
JULIANNE: ( murmurs ) Shoeless. Joe. Yes! We're in! Punching keys. Letters flying across the screen. Okay, we're ready. Types.
JULIANNE: ( reads as she types ) Mike. I hate this downsizing shit as much as you do. But I know this can't become as a complete surprise.
WALTER: ( reads ) Mike. I hate this downsizing. He reads. Reads. Reads. All the air comes out of him.
WALTER: ( softly ) And Kimmy doesn't know. She shakes her head. Nope. No way.
WALTER: ( signs ) I'll tell her I've reconsidered. She nods, gravely. Right. He looks in her eyes.
WALTER: You're a smart girl, Jules. She forces up a fleeting smile of gratitude. But Walter isn't smiling at all.
WALTER: Wish my daughter. Bad your INT. CHARLES TROTTER'S BAR - NIGHT The hot saloon in Chinatown. Upscale, downscale, jammed, Michael and Kimmy at a small table in a far corner. CLOSE on them.
MICHAEL: Sure you're okay? She looks really scared. Turns her drink in her hand. Looking down at it.
MICHAEL: It's not just a gag, huh?
KIMMY: No, it's, uh. a real big favor. He takes her hand, tenderly.
MICHAEL: I wish you'd just. come out with it. I mean why are we waiting for Jules? She smiles up at him. The best she can.
KIMMY: Moral support. She loves him so much, and she is sick with worry.
KIMMY: What's good of having a big sister, if she. Stops. Gestures with her eyes. Because her big sister has just . looking fabulous. Julianne wears a long sleek sarong, slightly see-through. Her hair is bound up with silver pins. As she moves through the room toward us, we can see that, for once, her make-up is flawless, understated. When she arrives at the table. . Michael is beaming, admiringly. He stands up.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Wow and wow. You have a date, after this?
JULIANNE: Never can tell. He holds her chair. She exchanges an intimate smile with the anxious Kim.
MICHAEL: You make me think of that song, we used to. And he starts humming. The song is, "The Way You Look Tonight."
MICHAEL: ( singing ) Someday. When I'm awfully low. They sit. He looks from Julianne to his bride.
MICHAEL: Okay, kid. You're on. Kim's eyes flick to Julianne, who nods, supportively. The kid takes a breath.
KIMMY: It's really my father. Who needs the favor. His face sort of comes to a stop. Nothing she can read, yet. He nods, yeah.?
KIMMY: He's. he's reorganizing some of the divisions of the company. His eyes flick to Julianne. She looks down.
MICHAEL: ( quiet ) He never mentioned that. Neither did y.
KIMMY: ( blurting ) . and public relations is a big problem area for him. She can see it now. In his eyes. She just can't tell how bad.
KIMMY: He needs someone incredible, someone really close, who he can trust.
MICHAEL: Like family, huh? So quiet. So cold. She is terrified.
KIMMY: It would only be, maybe, six months? Or three or four? It would mean so much to him.
MICHAEL: To him. She swallows. Straightens her spine.
KIMMY: And to m.
MICHAEL: ( sharp, to Julianne ) . and you knew about this. Real quiet. Against the noise of this place.
JULIANNE: I think you ought to listen to her, Michael. This is her life, Just the thing. To bring that anger near the surface. He turns to Kim.
MICHAEL: Well, which is it? A demand. Sharp. Accusing. She doesn't like that.
MICHAEL: You gonna tell me Daddy thought this one up? All of a sudden, I'm the only jerk alive who can help him deal with the press? She's trapped. Angry, scared. A deer in headlights.
MICHAEL: Why don't you start being honest for one fucking sec.
JULIANNE: ( near tears ) I am honest! All of a sudden, I'm supposed to drop out of school, forget my family, forget my career, forget all the plans I had for my life.
KIMMY: ( near tears ) I am honest! All of a sudden, I'm supposed to drop out of school, forget my family, forget my career, forget all the plans I had for my life.
KIMMY: All of a sudden, I'm supposed to drop out of school, forget my family, forget my career, forget all the plans I had for my life.
MICHAEL: Well, forgive me for screwing up your plans! He can't even believe he's hearing this.
MICHAEL: I'm sure glad I'm hearing all this now, before it's too late!
KIMMY: What is that sup.
MICHAEL: And what am I supposed to do with my life, huh? I am 28 years old! I work in a low-paying, low-status, zero-respect job which, unfortunately, I happen to fucking love. How inconvenient. No problem. A little bullshit about Daddy's "needs," and presto, I'm a lap dog in high society.
MICHAEL: No problem. A little bullshit about Daddy's "needs," and presto, I'm a lap dog in high society.
JULIANNE: ( softly ) Michael, it sounds like a wonderful opportun.
MICHAEL: ( whips around ) Does it, really? How come you never took some sell-out establishment job? You had plenty of chances! Glares in her eyes.
MICHAEL: I'll tell you why. Because that isn't you. And it isn't me, either! We're the same person! Back to Kim.
MICHAEL: What a sweet little picture. Mommy and Daddy aren't losing a daughter, they're gaining a eunuch!
KIMMY: Well, if that's the way you f.
MICHAEL: Damn straight, it's how I feel! What's their wedding gift, a little gold collar that says "Mikey-poo"? Or do I have to change my name to "Binky"? She's crying now. Real tears on her face.
MICHAEL: Great! Tears! The big equalizer. You wait till two days before the wedding to drop this on me, and I'm just supposed to roll over and She is sobbing now. She can't help herself. Which makes him totally crazy. He jumps up.
MICHAEL: Fine. I'm an insensitive, chauvinist asshole, and you're well rid of m.
KIMMY: A wrenching cry from her heart. It stops him cold. And before Julianne's astonished eyes, Kimmy reaches out a trembling hand.
MICHAEL!!: A wrenching cry from her heart. It stops him cold. And before Julianne's astonished eyes, Kimmy reaches out a trembling hand.
KIMMY: Michael, you are so. Choking back the sobs.
KIMMY: . so right. And I am so very Michael blinks. Julianne blinks. For different reasons.
KIMMY: We can't go down two roads. And still be together. Her fingers stretch, beckoning.
JULIANNE: Uh, Kimmy.?
KIMMY: ( ignores her ) We settled this. And I reneged. That wasn't fair. Please, please, take my hand.
KIMMY: You have to forgive me, and forget this ever happened. People are watching, staring. These two see only each other.
KIMMY: . or I'll die. A frozen, forever moment. He steps to her. . LIFTS her up in his arms. Into the deepest, most heartfelt KISS. And as she clings to him, people begins to APPLAUD, and whistle, and laugh. Julianne. In her pretty dress. Closes her eyes.
JULIANNE: . see that's what I never counted on! I never heard of a brilliant moron before! We CLOSE as she WHIPS around, startling us with her grotesque day- glo PURPLE face mask. The green was better.
JULIANNE: I mean, the little twerp
GROVELED!!: Losing it. We know the drill.
JULIANNE: SHE IS SO WRONG FOR HIM! Clutching the phone.
JULIANNE: Michael and I are the same person! Self-absorbed and imperfect and vaguely loveable! We deserve each other! Tears are flowing. Which, over this mask, is not a pretty sight.
JULIANNE: I'm out of hope, I'm out of sneaky ideas, I'm at the end of my rapidly-fraying hysterical little rope! Help m. She TRIPS over an open suitcase, and DISAPPEARS from frame. The THUD is slightly alarming.
DIGGER: You stole my line. He touches his face, and she realizes!
JULIANNE: Oh, shit! Starts CLAWING at the overripe mask, but he grabs her wrists.
DIGGER: Chill. We don't want your face coming off with it.
JULIANNE: Chill? Since when do you say When I'm talking to children. She looks in his eyes. Realizing at last.
DIGGER: When I'm talking to children. She looks in his eyes. Realizing at last.
JULIANNE: You flew all the way h.
DIGGER: I noticed. I'm on the noon back. We have this thing with George's family in the Hamptons.
JULIANNE: ( soft ) You're butting in. He still holds her wrists. She brings one of his hands to her lips. Kisses his knuckles.
JULIANNE: ( softer ) I really resent this.
JULIANNE: What I mean, when I say annoyingly perfect, is that there is nothing annoying about her perfection. It is vulnerable and endearing. And that is annoying as shit.
DIGGER: You like her.
JULIANNE: If I didn't have to hate her, I'd adore her. She looks up at him and WINCES, as the movement makes him scrape her face. He's sorry.
JULIANNE: Last night, she was crying, these big, real tears, when she thought she'd lost him. It was like there was a knife in her heart. Looking in his eyes. Needs him to hear.
JULIANNE: . and I put it there. I hated myself, I grieved for her, I couldn't enjoy one second of it! And then, when it didn't work. Can you believe this?
JULIANNE: I was devastated.
DIGGER: ( softly ) Go figure you.
JULIANNE: Because I realized. When I see him say "I do," that knife will be in my heart. And it will be there every. She holds his wrists now. To stop him. To plead for understanding. Forgiveness.
JULIANNE: . every time I think of him, forever, which could be a lot. She almost choked on that last part. So she composes herself.
JULIANNE: You watch a guy caress his girlfriend's butt. You see an Old Spice commercial. Sentimental moments are everywhere, when you're in the right frame of mind. She swallows hard. Fights for a grip on her determination.
JULIANNE: There are 18,250 nights in the next 50 years.
DIGGER: You've been working on this, huh?
JULIANNE: . and having "done the right thing" will only really be comforting, oh, maybe, five, six times. She sets her jaw.
JULIANNE: This is my whole life's happiness. I have to be ruthless.
DIGGER: ( quietly ) And you believe that.
JULIANNE: ( unconvincing ) His eyes are gentle and merciless at once. No way she gets off this hook.
JULIANNE: He was in love with me every day for nine years. I can make him happier than she can.
DIGGER: It's not his happiness you're feeling guilty about.
JULIANNE: ( proudly ) I don't know the meaning of the word guilt!
DIGGER: I am breaking her heart in the short run, but doing her a gigantic favor! She would be miserable tagging along after this insensitive doofus!
JULIANNE: I am breaking her heart in the short run, but doing her a gigantic favor! She would be miserable tagging along after this insensitive doofus!
DIGGER: The man you love.
JULIANNE: Beyond reason. The feminist warrior will rise up in this kid, and she'll be standing over his sleeping form with a butcher knife, selecting from a short list of body parts!
DIGGER: Someday she'll thank you.
JULIANNE: Let's not get carried away. And the defenses drain from her clay-ravaged features. The real Julianne is glimpsed.
JULIANNE: I'd settle for. Someday, I'll forgive myself. For doing this terrible thing. Her eyes tear up.
JULIANNE: For doing this terrible thing. Her eyes tear up.
JULIANNE: Which, by the way, I can't figure out how to do. As the tears fall, he wipes at them, discovering.
DIGGER: Jesus. You're supposed to take your make-up off before you apply the m.
JULIANNE: I KNOW THAT! I WAS DISTRACTED BY Guess what I brushed my teeth with last night? He thinks about this. Following her eyes to the toiletries kit, he browses for a moment.
GRIEF!: Guess what I brushed my teeth with last night? He thinks about this. Following her eyes to the toiletries kit, he browses for a moment.
JULIANNE: Guess what I brushed my teeth with last night? He thinks about this. Following her eyes to the toiletries kit, he browses for a moment.
DIGGER: Zit cream?
JULIANNE: I wish.
DIGGER: Try less appropriate.
JULIANNE: Try less appropriate.
DIGGER: Ben Gay.
JULIANNE: That was Thursday. He stops on that note.
DIGGER: Elmer's Glue?
JULIANNE: DON'T BE RIDICULOUS, WE'RE HAVING A SERIOUS CONVERSATION! She's hysterical.
DIGGER: I give.
JULIANNE: I can't even say it. Now. He's curious.
JULIANNE: A hint. The first word is "Preparation." Then comes a letter of the alphabet, perilously close to G. She reaches to test her curling iron, BURNS her finger, SHIT! KNOCKING the appliance into the half-filled sink. She LUNGES for it, and a terrified Digger GRASPS her arm.
DIGGER: Considering the circumstances, I'm not wholly against suicide. Just not by electrocution in front of me! I've got this noon flight. He reaches to pull the plug from the wall, and now she LUNGES to grab his arm, slipping, her face falling forward, stopping an inch above the sink.
DIGGER: Just not by electrocution in front of me! I've got this noon flight. He reaches to pull the plug from the wall, and now she LUNGES to grab his arm, slipping, her face falling forward, stopping an inch above the sink.
DIGGER: I've got this noon flight. He reaches to pull the plug from the wall, and now she LUNGES to grab his arm, slipping, her face falling forward, stopping an inch above the sink.
JULIANNE: How do you know you can touch that plug? Are you a licensed What do you suggest? She looks from the plug down the cord, to the submerged curling iron. And back.
DIGGER: What do you suggest? She looks from the plug down the cord, to the submerged curling iron. And back.
JULIANNE: Maybe they just seal off this room. They have others. He's staring at her. Sweet, but intense.
DIGGER: I didn't mean about that. Oh. Again.
JULIANNE: If I hear the words "tell the truth," or any paraphrase thereof, I dive into the sink and pull you with me. Looking at her. Looking at her.
DIGGER: Let's go meet Michael. I'll wait downstairs.
DIGGER: I suppose it's too late to start over.
JULIANNE: It's too late to start over. PULL BACK to reveal Michael in his wedding tux, submitting to a final fitting from a stylish fitter.
MICHAEL: You guys are heartless, my bride picked this out.
JULIANNE: Like I said, dazzling.
DIGGER: Is she going to dress you every day? Michael smiles over. Digger smiles back. They live each other.
MICHAEL: Yeah, it's in the contract.
DIGGER: ( softly ) Well, then, I'll take it up with her. Michael motions, okay, c'mon over. Digger rises, goes to Michael, the fitter steps back as Digger shows him.
DIGGER: The cut here, here. this Fingers lightly traveling over the lapel, the side-stitching, the cloth straight down the spine.
DIGGER: . trouser width, this is all classic. Which means safe, something I'd wear.
MICHAEL: I should look different.
DIGGER: You should look like you dressed yourself. Yes? Michael's grin is back. Playful and friendly.
MICHAEL: And I'm supposed to respect your fashion tips, because you're what, a New Yorker?
DIGGER: ( quiet smile ) Something like that. Julianne loves that the boy are getting on.
MICHAEL: ( means this ) Long trip. Pretty nice of you to come.
DIGGER: Well, I'm close to her. I wanted to meet the one that got away. Said so naturally. That embarrasses Michael, who looks down, his smile suddenly awkward.
DIGGER: I'm just glad someone finally put this thing in its proper perspective. Steals a glance at Julianne. She rolls her eyes. What a goofball, my outrageous friend.
MICHAEL: I'm just glad someone finally put this thing in its proper perspective. Steals a glance at Julianne. She rolls her eyes. What a goofball, my outrageous friend.
MICHAEL: ( to Digger ) Stay, huh?
DIGGER: I honestly wish I could.
MICHAEL: I'll call George's parents. Tell them I need a best man who actually looks after me. Julianne comes over.
JULIANNE: ( softly ) They'd say that's my job. She runs her hands over his jacket, smoothing it everywhere. With tenderness that approaches transparency. Glances back at Digger.
JULIANNE: I'll take it home from here. Pinches Michael's ear. Looks in his eyes.
DIGGER: Two words.
JULIANNE: Major. Dish.
DIGGER: She looks down. Michael's nails are unclipped, with layers of impacted dirt. She touches his fingertips, a little more softly than she may have intended.
DIGGER: Everyone looks down. She ZIPS Michael up.
MICHAEL: ( to Digger ) You don't miss much.
DIGGER: Part of being a New Yorker.
JULIANNE: Bye, handsome. Digger just stares at her. Those maddening judgemental eyes.
JULIANNE: You're going to say it, aren't Tell him you love him. With all your heart.
DIGGER: Tell him you love him. With all your heart.
JULIANNE: I'm taking my next book to Tell him you've loved him for nine years, but you were afraid to realize it.
DIGGER: Tell him you've loved him for nine years, but you were afraid to realize it.
JULIANNE: I'm moving this book to Viking.
DIGGER: Tell him you're afraid of love. Afraid of needing.
JULIANNE: To belong to someone. He touches her hair.
DIGGER: To belong to someone. He touches her hair.
DIGGER: We all do, beautiful. I'm sorry about that. Staring in her eyes. Even Julianne has run out of words.
DIGGER: Tell him you know this is the worst, dumbest, cruelest moment to do this to him. But there it is, and he has to choose.
JULIANNE: And what will he do? Digger isn't smiling. His voice low, beneath the crowd.
DIGGER: He'll choose Kim. You'll stand by her at her wedding. You'll kiss him good-bye. And you'll go home. He holds up one finger. Almost touching her nose.
DIGGER: This is what you've come to do. Now do it. Wow. She looks frightened and moved, all at the same time. She kisses him on the lips. And walks away. He watches her go through the crowd. Take Michael's hand. Lead him back toward the taxi.
JULIANNE: Getting your bed made. Every They smile at each other. Seem so comfortable together.
JULIANNE: You miss her, huh?
MICHAEL: No. I've got you. She nods. That you have. Staring in her eyes.
MICHAEL: Don't you throw up on boat?
JULIANNE: If you like. And she LURCHES over the railing, emitting a BARRAGE of incredibly disgusting sounds, her feet FLAILING in mid-air. He laughs, as he pulls her back down to the deck. Of course, it was all a joke. He brushes back her hair. Sighs. Stares.
MICHAEL: I've been thinking a lot the last couple days. About us, Have you. He has.
JULIANNE: ( casual ) Have you. He has.
JULIANNE: Well. There's a lot of memories to choose from.
MICHAEL: It's more than that. That tightens her throat pretty good. When she tries to speak, out comes a dry CROAK that makes him laugh again. Softer, this time.
MICHAEL: I mean, it's embarrassing to say it this way, but. He stops. Her eyes WIDEN in a burlesque of anticipation. So he smiles. She knows how to put him at ease.
MICHAEL: You've sort of been. y'know, the woman in my life.
JULIANNE: ( straight back ) You've been the man in mine. Passing under the Michigan Avenue Bridge. No one knows quite what to say.
MICHAEL: And I was thinking this could be our last time. Alone. Together. You know?
JULIANNE: Except for the hot affairs we'll have twice a year.
MICHAEL: Except for that. She's smiling so easily. Who would guess her stomach is double- I can hardly wait for your Me either. She watches his surprise.
MICHAEL: I can hardly wait for your Me either. She watches his surprise.
JULIANNE: Me either. She watches his surprise.
MICHAEL: Boy, I never thought I'd hear you say that. Can I come? She holds herself together. Real soft with.
JULIANNE: I couldn't have it without you. He's glad to hear that. And then.
MICHAEL: It's normal to have. second thoughts, huh? To be scared. Is this a change of direction? Or is it the direction she's been praying for.
JULIANNE: I wouldn't know. I never had that many first thoughts.
MICHAEL: I mean, you commit to a wedding. And then it seems like. this. momentum, you know? You forget you. chose it. She nods. Understands.
MICHAEL: You and I. I mean, in all our relationships with other people. We didn't use the word "love" a lot, did we? We didn't.
MICHAEL: Kimmy says. When you love someone. You say it, you say it out loud. Right now. Or the moment. Long beat.
MICHAEL: . passes you by, yeah. She's a smart girl. Off in distance, the Centennial Fountain SHOOTS an eight-foot JET of water across the river. For Michael and Julianne it goes We don't have a song. Kimmy and I. We don't have a song. Is that a bad sign? All Julianne can do is shrug. Then.
MICHAEL: We don't have a song. Kimmy and I. We don't have a song. Is that a bad sign? All Julianne can do is shrug. Then.
MICHAEL: Kimmy and I. We don't have a song. Is that a bad sign? All Julianne can do is shrug. Then.
MICHAEL: ( sings, softly ) Someday, when I'm awfully low. She doesn't want to cry. So she puts all the strength she has into fighting it back.
MICHAEL: ( sings ) I will feel a glow just Thinking of you. He stops. Smiles that sweet, boyish smile.
MICHAEL: Dance card filled?
JULIANNE: I'll check. I have it on powerbook, these days. He holds up his arms. And she moves into them. He begins to dance with her, turning so slowly. And, yes, people are watching.
MICHAEL: ( sings in her ear ) With each word, your tenderness grows, Tearing my fears apart.
MICHAEL: ( sings ) And that laugh Touches my foolish heart. He stops. He looks at her. She's still in his arms.
MICHAEL: Where did we first hear th.
JULIANNE: ( straight back ) The night we met. Right to his eyes.
JULIANNE: The night we fell in love. He doesn't know what to do with that.
MICHAEL: So we heard it. like, right that. that first.
JULIANNE: We danced to it. Just like this. Just like this. A long beat. And he has to say.
MICHAEL: I won't lose you, will I? Her eyes close. Then open. Utterly lost in his.
JULIANNE: No. Because I won't let you.
WALTER: I thought Michael was picking me up.
JULIANNE: I told him, get the important stuff, Kim's ring. I'll collect the inconsequentials. Meaning, you. They smile at each other. Then.
WALTER: Kim said, when he turned down the job, there was no friction. Julianne thinks back.
JULIANNE: Friction. No. He smiles at her line reading. But his mind is always probing.
WALTER: I haven't caused. a problem, have I?
JULIANNE: Nobody has. So far. Her bright grin. His eyes linger on it.
WALTER: Well, you're a little early.
JULIANNE: I need to make some calls. Could I use. your office?
JULIANNE: ( softly ) You can do this. Sacred, filled with doubt and conflict. Her hands clutch at each other. Then, one flicks out. And the computer goes ON. The screen GLOWS. Waits for her. Her mouth is sand, her stomach water. She pulls the paper from her pocket. . looks at it. Looks to the monitor. And begins. To type.
JULIANNE: ( mumbling to herself ) E-mail address. To Ben Isaacson, Senior Editor, Sports Illustrated, from. Walter Wallace. And stops. Her heart is thumping.
JULIANNE: See, you can do it. It's easy. Doesn't look easy. Licks her lips.
JULIANNE: You do it fast, it's over. Like it never happened. She sits. And recites as she types.
JULIANNE: Ben. I need a favor. Here we go. This is it. Types.
JULIANNE: My daughter's every happiness. And my wife's. And, least of all, my own, are in your hands. Nods, okay. Breathing hard. Types.
JULIANNE: Knowing you value our friendship, and the. cooperative relationship between our companies. I am hopeful of your help. Touch, that. Thinks. It has to be. Types.
JULIANNE: I have offered Mike O'Neal, my new son-in-law, a great opportunity in my company. This would also enable my daughter to settle in Chicago, near us, and pursue her dreams and plans. Almost there. Almost. Types.
JULIANNE: To his own detriment, as well as ours, Michael will not accept our offer. While he works for you. She stands up. Stares at the screen. Walks away. Walks back. Still standing, types.
JULIANNE: My daughter joins me in this plea for your cooperation and Is there a SOUND? Outside the door. She HOVERS over the ESCAPE key. Waits. Waits. Silence. Types.
JULIANNE: With gratitude. For your understanding. Walter. She hits a KEY. The screen goes BLANK. The computer asks. DO YOU WISH TO SEND? She tells the computer.
JULIANNE: Are you crazy? Get him fired? Types NO. The computer asks HOLD FOR LATER? And she types YES.
JULIANNE: Just till tonight when I bring him back. To look for. She glances to her huge bag. Rummages through, pulling out a manila folder. Lays it by the blank computer. Fans out a few pages in a natural, disorderly way. Takes a step back. And stares. Struck to her gut. But when she has done.
WALTER: ( going through stack ) Off to rehearsal. Send out this, and this, not this, this, and. that's it. Slips on his coat. Oh. and by the way.
WALTER: I'm holding four or five E-mails I wrote over lunch. On his way through the door.
WALTER: Send 'em out.
MANDY: Reverend Dyer, this is Kimberly's somewhat butch maid of honor.
SAMMY: . Mr. Julianne Potter, prominent New York drag queen. Today, the girls' voices are charmingly musically Southern, with none of the extreme accents we heard at the shower. The minister extends his hand.
MINISTER: Billy Dyer, Julianne. And I love the suit. She shakes his hand, smiles graciously, but her eyes flick to Michael, now approaching up the aisle. The girls lead the minister away. Michael arrives. Looks her up and down.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Takes me back.
JULIANNE: She smiles. One that glows a little.
JULIANNE: You sang the song. Least I could do was wear the outfit. He nods.
MICHAEL: Except now you're better- Oh, yeah? Yes, ma'am. As she loses herself in his eyes.
MICHAEL: I got the ring. He pulls the box from his pocket. Somewhere, an ORGAN sounds. And as he is about to hand her the box.
JULIANNE: No accents today.
MICHAEL: Yeah, Kim told me they were giving you their Dueling Scarlet's act. Actually, they're sophomores at Juilliard. She takes the box from his hand. Opens it, as the singing CONTINUES throughout. The ring is delicate hammered gold. One of a kind.
MICHAEL: Will she like it?
JULIANNE: ( whisper ) She's staring at the ring.
JOE: Like to welcome ever'body to our little rehearsal supper. He COUGHS, unaccustomed to public speaking. Walter and Isabelle clap and call out support. So Joe lifts his mallet.
JOE: Okay, everyone stand up! And everyone does. With one exception. Trapped. She JAMS her left hand in her coat pocket, SMEARS her right palm sort of clean on the underside of the table, GRABS her mallet and JUMPS UP.
JOE: To the bride, uh, goes the honor. of cracking the first Everyone applauses by banging their mallets. Joe RAISES his high. Everybody imitates.
KIMMY: But first, a toast! And everybody SNATCHES up their beers with their left hands, as Julianne DROPS her mallet with a HORRIFIC CRASH, grabbing her beer, looking up to.
JULIANNE: ( on the spot ) I'm right-handed. A hugely embarrassing half-second. Bailed out by.
KIMMY: To our host, my cuddly Papa All turns.
KIMMY: Who taught me to play "Blue Hawaii." On my nose. With a look at Julianne, Kim sets down her mallet gently, and performs a nasal HUM of the tropical standard, strikingly her nostril repeatedly for vibrato. It is charming, and everybody watches.
MANDY: I know why you're scared of our party. It's too hip. Sinatra singing "Stranger In The Night." Hugely-muscled, half-naked black and white studs, serving enchanted blue-haired ladies.
SAMMY: Kimberly wanted to tickle the grandmas, so we figured, give 'em a cheap thrill. Walter supplied the decorative Nose tackle from the Bears. power forward from the Bulls. defenseman from the Black Hawks. my personal favorite, the designated hitter.
SAMMY: ( points out the jokes ) Nose tackle from the Bears. power forward from the Bulls. defenseman from the Black Hawks. my personal favorite, the designated hitter.
MANDY: . I'm partial to the tight end.
SAMMY: This is USDA Prime, largely available, beef. With no notice- able competition, present company Now they stare at her. With identical, really odd, smiles.
SAMMY: And yet here you are. All celibate and reclusive.
MANDY: With those big, dark, haunted eyes. As if you were harborin' some. unspeakably. guilty. secret. Well, I'm worried about something. Something. Their expressions are deliciously, identically Oh. I left this really important file in Walter's office. I have to send my editor some. . figures. On territorial sales. To close my book deal. So Kim gave me the key. And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal.
JULIANNE: Well, I'm worried about something. Something. Their expressions are deliciously, identically Oh. I left this really important file in Walter's office. I have to send my editor some. . figures. On territorial sales. To close my book deal. So Kim gave me the key. And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal.
JULIANNE: Oh. I left this really important file in Walter's office. I have to send my editor some. . figures. On territorial sales. To close my book deal. So Kim gave me the key. And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal.
JULIANNE: . figures. On territorial sales. To close my book deal. So Kim gave me the key. And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal.
JULIANNE: So Kim gave me the key. And Michael's on his way, to drive me down to Wal.
SAMMY: Oh. We thought it was the ring. Julianne blinks. Ring.?
MANDY: The one you better get the fuck off your third finger left hand. Ah. That ring.
JULIANNE: Well. See. That was a. reflex to see if it would.
MANDY: ( helpful ) . look good on Kimberly.
JULIANNE: Right. And then it didn't want to come off. Exactly.
SAMMY: Maybe it's happy there.
MANDY: Oh the way out of the crab house? We asked Michael if we could see the ring?
SAMMY: He said you told him. It'd be safer with you.
MANDY: An so it is. Julianne for once is speechless. To our amazement, the girls wear identical smiles of kindness and support.
MANDY: Shut up, sugar, he's on his way. Let's get to work.
EIGHT PEOPLE: TWIST IT! TWIST IT! Nada. It won't budge. A sous chef WIPES her hand with a towel, a janitor CRASHES a tool kit onto the counter. THROWS it open, pulls . a spray can of WD-40. Instantly, her hand is BLACK. The guy TUGS. No movement. He can't believe it.
JANITOR: It's mental, lady, you ain't Sammy is rummaging through her handbag, pulling out.
SAMMY: There is nothing so tight, this can't help it. . a tube of jelly. The letter K-Y. Julianne just gives her a look. Mandy pushes through with a butcher's CLEAVER.
MANDY: I saw this on Hard Copy. People cut off body parts and the hospital sew 'em back o. The look has turned toward her.
JULIANNE: ( cold ) I saw the show.
MANDY: . well, maybe it works on fingers, too.
FLOWER GIRL: Mr. Michael's here. Everything gets real quiet. Mandy takes charge. She rolls down Julianne's left sleeve, RIPS the hem out of the cuff, so that it flaps down over her hand, covering the ring. Sammy wipes the black stuff from Julianne's fingers.
MANDY: Don't worry, baby. You could pick your nose with that finger and Michael would never notice. He's a man. The twins lead her off. We're on their backs for.
JULIANNE: I can't believe this! PULL BACK farther to see Michael still trying keys from a large key ring in the heavy lock. Sign over the door says WALLACE ENTERPRISES. Traffic hustles by, oblivious to her suffering.
MICHAEL: It's no big deal, she just gave you the wrong keys that's s.
JULIANNE: ISN'T THERE A GUARD? A JANITOR? A FUCKING CLEANING WOMAN? I'LL TAKE A BURGLAR! SOMEBODY'S GOTTA BE IN TH. And she SLAMS her whole BODY against the glass, making it rattle ominously.
JULIANNE: WHERE'S A BRICK? FIND ME A GODDAMN BRICK!! She looks around wildly, hysterical.
GODDAMN BRICK!!: She looks around wildly, hysterical.
MICHAEL: What is the big deal about getting this file tonight? A good question. She needs a good answer.
JULIANNE: I promised Digger I'd E-mail him those figures. From his face, that wasn't it.
JULIANNE: They are very important figures. Apparently. He's just staring at her.
JULIANNE: I'm up against a deadline.
MICHAEL: Me, too. I'm getting married That's my point!! Now. He really doesn't get it.
JULIANNE: That's my point!! Now. He really doesn't get it.
JULIANNE: I mean, tomorrow. we'll all be busy with more important things. . tonight's my last chance. He sighs.
JULIANNE: . tonight's my last chance. He sighs.
MICHAEL: I forgot how cute you look. When you get impossible.
JULIANNE: It's just. up there. right in front of Walter's. y'know, computer. If memory serves. We could use. his computer, to. just E-mail those suckers right ou.
JULIANNE: We could use. his computer, to. just E-mail those suckers right ou.
MICHAEL: Tomorrow is Sunday. Nobody's doing business. Crack of dawn, Monday, Walter'll take you up there. Her eyes fill with tears. He is mystified. Smiles tenderly.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Give it up, kid. Touches her hair.
MICHAEL: You can't win 'em all. And slowly, he takes her hand. Leads her way. She takes one backward glance at the locked door. Her last dream dies.
MICHAEL: ( gently ) Listen up, huh? Even if you blow this deal, how big could it be?
JULIANNE: ( voice nearly cracking ) You're right. Easy come, easy go. He's really concerned, can't bear to see her so upset.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) She won't look at him. She wants to die. The bell RINGS, the doors open to her floor. She just walks out. And he follows. They stand now, she with her arms crossed, lip trembling. She can't believe how close she is to losing it.
MICHAEL: This thing means that much to It means a lot. He nods. Okay.
JULIANNE: It means a lot. He nods. Okay.
MICHAEL: I'll call the house, Walter's probably not even asleep. Her mouth drops. She can't believe this.
MICHAEL: I'll drive you out there, we'll get the key, we'll go back to the office. She THROWS her arms around his, HUGGING him so hard, so close. He laughs, she is so weird. She pulls back, beaming, glowing.
MICHAEL: Come on, we'll call from your She claps his hand. As they head down the hall.
MICHAEL: If I fall asleep on the altar He's trying to flip through the message slips in his free hand.
MICHAEL: . you better be there to. funny, these are all from Ben. She's at her door, turning the key. He looks at the envelope.
MICHAEL: The fax is from Ben, too. Man, it's my wedding, and my boss can't leave me alone.
JULIANNE: ( entering her room ) . maybe it's congratulations. He follows her in, opening the envelope. Stops. Reads. And his face suddenly. freezes. To stone.
JULIANNE: ( turning to him ) Michael? What ha.
MICHAEL: ( reading ) Mike. I can't believe I'm doing this to you on the night before your wedding. But I think you need and deserve to know. And he looks up to her.
MICHAEL: . what you're marrying into. He hands it toward her. She takes it, hesitantly, and he walks past. Toward the phone.
JULIANNE: ( reading ) I received the following E-mail this afternoon. "Ben, I need a favor. My daughter's every happiness. " Her eyes BUG OUT of her head. Holy shit! We can hear him DIALING the phone. She keeps reading, it's all there. How did this happen?
JULIANNE: ( reading ) "Mike, the funny thing is, he's offering you a gig you'd be stupid to turn down."
JULIANNE: ( reading ) "Maybe you should take the job. And dump the girl." And when she turns.
MICHAEL: Jules. Could you give me a He looks more sick than angry. As if the heart has just been cut out of him. She doesn't know what to say or do, so she just stands, staring dumbly.
MICHAEL: She nods, stumbles out of her room, closing the door behind her. Now she's in the empty corridor, clutching her big jumbled bag, sinking down to sit on the carpet, her back against the door. She doesn't look elated. She seems frightened, distraught, and most of all, confused. Because she can't understand why. She digs absently through her bag. Cigarettes. Box of matches. She lights up. Draws deeply. Somehow, she seems near tears, and laughs bitterly at that. Shakes her head at how fucked-up she finds herself. Squeaking wheels approach, but she is too lost to hear them.
BELLMAN: Miss, are you locked out, or something? She looks up. A small, wiry man of nearly 60, in a slightly faded but neatly-kept uniform. On his cart, a ton of bags.
JULIANNE: No, I just stepped out, because. it's a non-smoking room. And inhales deeply. Leans back against the door, to look up at him more comfortably.
BELLMAN: ( politely ) Well, it's non-smoking floor, too. Maybe you could go to the.
JULIANNE: ( seriously ) Why don't you have me arrested? That wasn't sarcastic. He doesn't know what to say.
JULIANNE: I mean that. Arrested, convicted, put in solitary. Another puff.
JULIANNE: See, I'm a dangerous, criminal person. I do bad things to honest people. This, see, this smoking? Tip of the iceberg. Waves her hand.
JULIANNE: Make a citizen's arrest, I won't struggle. It'll be like getting Al Capone on tax evasion. Now she seems angry. But not at him. Her eyes fill with tears.
BELLMAN: Can I. Can I help you, miss? She squints at his nameplate.
JULIANNE: Do you smoke, Richard?
BELLMAN: Yes, ma'am, I do, but it's.
JULIANNE: . a non-smoking floor, yeah. Well, you know what? And she takes the cigarette from her lips. Turns it around, holds it out to him. Go ahead. He doesn't move. Please! And so. . he reaches down, takes the cigarette from her hand. Staring in her eyes, he takes a deep drag. Savors an expert nostril-inhale of his exhaled smoke. Hands the cigarette back to her.
BELLMAN: My grandmother always said, "This, too, shall pass." She swallows. Wipes at her eyes. Finds a smile.
JULIANNE: Thanks, Richard. If you weren't on duty, I'd buy you a drink. He just nods. She waves. He waves back, pushes his cart down the hall. As she watches him go, the door behind her suddenly OPENS, and she. . FALLS through it, flat on her back at Michael's feet. Staring up at him, seeing that he looks as bad as she feels, she takes raw, deep What happened?
JULIANNE: What happened?
MICHAEL: ( softly ) It's over. And crouches down. Close beside her. The cigarette drops from her hand, unnoticed on the carpet. So he lifts it, crushes it on the heel of his shoe.
MICHAEL: I want you to quit this shit, it'll kill you. She just nods, obediently. Okay, I will.
MICHAEL: She denied it. Said I was crazy and paranoid.
JULIANNE: A bad combination. He tries to smile. It's really hard.
MICHAEL: There's this big brunch tomorrow morning? At her place. He lets the air out. Slow. So he won't cry.
MICHAEL: She said "How can I call everything off, what do I tell everybody?" Shakes his head. Can you imagine that?
JULIANNE: No, it's for the best, it really is. We were so wrong for each Maybe tomorrow, you'll feel dif.
MICHAEL: No, it's for the best, it really is. We were so wrong for each Maybe tomorrow, you'll feel dif.
JULIANNE: Maybe tomorrow, you'll feel dif.
MICHAEL: The job thing would have broken us up, eventually, anyway. She couldn't have lived with it. I know that now. Julianne nods. Maybe that part is right. Maybe it would have ended anyway. Maybe she can pretend she's not a monster.
MICHAEL: And she's right, I'm crazy to fall for someone. I hardly Looks deep in her eyes. He's so glad she's there.
MICHAEL: Hey. You still got that ring? She holds up her left hand, the flapping sleeve falls away. The ring is on a finger that is swollen and raw.
JULIANNE: I tried it on. But it won't come off. He smiles at that. A sad smile of friendship. Then takes her finger gently. . into his mouth. It is something like a kiss. And when he removes her moistened finger. . he pulls the ring OFF. Nothing to it. She blinks.
JULIANNE: It's mental, you know. He doesn't understand that.
JULIANNE: Should we take a walk? Or maybe some food sent up, or I just want to be alone. Is that okay? She nods, sure. He kisses her cheek. Stands up.
MICHAEL: I just want to be alone. Is that okay? She nods, sure. He kisses her cheek. Stands up.
MICHAEL: Maybe I'll go back to New York. Hang with you for awhile, huh? Ben'll understand. She nods again. Whatever you say. He steps into the open doorway.
MICHAEL: Or we'll go somewhere. If you have the time.
JULIANNE: If San Antonio sweeps They smiles at each other. For real.
JULIANNE: I've never been to Texas. Imagine that. The look holds. Just above a whisper.
MICHAEL: Thanks for coming to my wedding. And then he's gone.
JULIANNE: Hey, handsome. Brevity this. Her eyes find the pack of cigarettes. Next to her toiletries kit.
JULIANNE: ( softly ) I won. Her fingers touch the pack. As if an object of significance. Takes it up.
JULIANNE: Amazing, huh? I didn't do things quite your way. But. I got it Cradling the phone against her shoulder, she carefully tears the top of the pack completely open.
JULIANNE: And forty years and nine grand- children later, when I sit with Michael on some rustic porch, slogging through our sweet swamp of nostalgic memories. Reaches the pack toward the toilet.
JULIANNE: No one is going to sweet the Turns it upside down, emptying a dozen cigarettes into the john.
JULIANNE: Of one weekend in Chicago. Drops the lid with a CLATTER. Hits the FLUSH.
JULIANNE: Talk about celebration. She lifts a tube from her toiletries kit. Stares at it, real I'm gonna brush my teeth with actual toothpaste. Turns it over, reads all the writing. Yep.
JULIANNE: I'm gonna brush my teeth with actual toothpaste. Turns it over, reads all the writing. Yep.
JULIANNE: I guess I'm too exhausted to feel the elation I so richly Squeezes some paste onto her brush. Carefully.
JULIANNE: So I'm gonna hold calls at the desk. while I get my. Start brushing.
JULIANNE: ( around, her mouthful ) God, it is toothpaste, they should sell this stuff commercially! Anyway, a girl does need her. Squints at her image. Laughs, spewing a little foam.
JULIANNE: . well, we're a bit past worrying about beauty sleep. Let's just settle for not frightening small animals. She SPITS. Tells Digger's machine.
JULIANNE: Anyway, I couldn't have done it without you. Even though I did, if you follow that. Wipes her mouth. Stares off. The eyes a little dreamy.
JULIANNE: Three words: Happily. Ever. Well, you know.
JULIANNE: ( to the slip ) You're going where?
ISABELLE: Jules. We're so glad you slept in. Takes her arm graciously. This woman would make Anne Bancroft look coarse. As they walk.
ISABELLE: Now, you have a choice. The idea is bride and groom shouldn't see each other on the magic day. Julianne looking all around. Magic day it seems to be. Where the bell is a bride or a groom?
ISABELLE: So Michael stays put in the garden. Kimmy stays in here. Pointing. THERE she is, obscured by a cluster of the appropriately fawning. She has the same hunted eyes and false, slightly manic smile Julianne wore yesterday. This, at least, makes sense.
JULIANNE: She looks tense.
ISABELLE: ( O.S., calmly ) Nerves. I would never have EXT. ROSE GARDEN - DAAY A steward leads Julianne to the edge of an expansive rose garden, altogether elegant and comfortable with its long white picnic tables, where nearly a hundred guests casually dine, served by rolling carts. There, at the head table, Michael staring at us. He looks like a poor attempt to cover a hard night. She locks onto his eyes. What the hell is going on? He looks helpless, miserable. She gestures with her head, follow me. Stalks off.
JULIANNE: I had the craziest dream last night? Walter and Kimmy had asked your boss to.
MICHAEL: Look, I came down here to face everybody. I didn't want to slink away like some coward.
JULIANNE: But the Scotch salmon was so fucking good, you decided to stay for brunch!
MICHAEL: She hasn't told anybody, what am I supposed to do?
JULIANNE: Get married, apparently. She comes OFF the swing, PUSHES him back two feet.
JULIANNE: What the hell are you thinking of, the goddamn wedding is SIX
O'CLOCK!!: He swallows hard. Trapped.
MICHAEL: This is her family and her And your point?
JULIANNE: And your point?
MICHAEL: ( ten years old ) Well. How come she didn't.
JULIANNE: BECAUSE SHE'S AS CHICKENSHIT AS YOU ARE, YOU MORONS ARE MADE FOR EACH OTHER. He just blinks.
MICHAEL: Hey. This is a serious matter. Thank you. She POKES his chest, punctuating.
JULIANNE: I'll be right back.
KIMMY: Look at all this beautiful food, so lovingly prepared.
JULIANNE: They'll eat it anyway, you ever been to a walk? Kimmy's lip trembles. This is not how she thought of her wedding. The din is so horrific, Kimmy leads them into a walk-in meat locker. Even here, two BUTCHERS are dressing Eastern-fresh corn- fed carcasses.
JULIANNE: You guys want to give us a The men blink at each other.
JULIANNE: We'd like to be alone with our pork. On that basis. They leave. Kimmy sits on a stack of packaged frozen fowl parts. Stares up with big, sweet, wet eyes.
KIMMY: How's he doing? Julianne cannot believe this.
JULIANNE: Who? The jerk who's running your life?
KIMMY: This must be. very, very, hard on him.
JULIANNE: What with the psychosis and all, yeah. Leans in. Listen.
JULIANNE: When are you gonna come clean with your folks?
KIMMY: Don't you see.
JULIANNE: If you're waiting for "Do you take this man?", that's considered poor form.
KIMMY: . that this is all my fault? Stops Julianne cold. Your fault.
KIMMY: Whatever delusions I drove him to, there is truth at the heart of it. I want him to work for my father. I want to stay in school. I want a life of my own! Harder and harder for Julianne to push. Her mouth is dry.
JULIANNE: Yeah, well, lots of couples are I love him. Fragile and strong at once. A plea.
KIMMY: I love him. Fragile and strong at once. A plea.
KIMMY: Tell him it's my fault and that I love him. A long beat.
JULIANNE: I'll be right back.
MICHAEL: How is she? Julianne absorbs this. As the bizarre SOUNDS continue, she WHIRLS KNOCK IT OFF!!! We now see three STONER COLLEGE GUYS, who have been filling the endless array of balloons from helium tanks at center court. Clearly, they've been inhaling their working materials.
JULIANNE: KNOCK IT OFF!!! We now see three STONER COLLEGE GUYS, who have been filling the endless array of balloons from helium tanks at center court. Clearly, they've been inhaling their working materials.
STONER KID: ( Minnie Mouse )
YES, SIR!: A Nazi salute. When she turns back.
MICHAEL: I asked you.
JULIANNE: She admits it's her fault. He absorbs that. And then.
MICHAEL: Do you think she still loves We watch the struggle inside her. Her voice drops.
JULIANNE: Sure, she does. She's crazy about you. Now tears stand in both their eyes. The stoners are doing their Alvin and the Chipmuks impersonation festival in the B.G., singing in castrato harmony. But our two don't notice.
MICHAEL: I keep asking, how can I explain what happened? And I keep getting that same answer all night long. Which is.
MICHAEL: I can't. And it doesn't matter. I drove her to it, because I want things my way. And even if she did something tricky and unfair. she was blinded by love, okay? Julianne swallows. For obvious reasons.
JULIANNE: Does that make it right.
MICHAEL: Love doesn't have to be right. It just has to be love. The stoner are now helium-crooning "Bridge Over Troubled Waters." Actually, they're getting better.
MICHAEL: She's giving up half her life for me, and I'm bitching because it hurts her.
STONERS: ( singing ) Sail on silver girl
MICHAEL: She's a saint! And I'm a worthless ingrate!
STONERS: ( singing ) Your time has come to shine,
MICHAEL: Tell her. I'll marry her at six o'clock, if she'll still have me. The stoners blend on the high note. It's pretty moving.
JULIANNE: I'll be right back.
KIMMY: ( whispers ) So. What did he say? Julianne's eyes move over the young girl's face.
JULIANNE: He said. Marry me. Kimmy YELPS in her ecstasy, FLINGING herself against Julianne, and they go DOWN full length across the organ's pedals, BLASTING the room with a MONSTER CHORD of china-rattling volume and horrifying As grown men and women SCREAM in spontaneous terror below, Kimmy begins to. . LAUGH. And KISS and hug her new sister. And holds her tight.
MICHAEL: ( never looks up ) Thank God you were here.
JULIANNE: ( mumbles to herself ) Oh, yeah.
MICHAEL: I was so confused, so conflicted, so. unstable.
JULIANNE: Well, it happens. They pass an expanse of lawn which has become the event parking area. Family vehicles, delivery trucks, service vans. Everything that couldn't fit on the circular front driveway.
MICHAEL: I might have thrown away. Searching for the right words.
JULIANNE: . your one chance for true . yeah, that.
MICHAEL: . yeah, that.
JULIANNE: You never want to do that, see, that's always a. costly turnover. As they say in the sport biz. There's a vague Stepford Wife quality to her voice. He hears that now, and looks at her. Maybe he can't tell she's frightened. But he can tell she's something.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) Are you okay? She stops walking. She can't look at him, so she looks around. Across the lawn crews are moving equipment into the brightly- colored tents, unfolding and setting up stacks of tables and chairs, raising the poles between which all those balloons will be strung. At the center of it all. .. a huge topiary White Sox batter, just completing a murderous swing. He's maybe fifteen feet tall. She points to it.
JULIANNE: The Big Hurt, huh?
MICHAEL: Nellie Fox. Walter likes the past. And he likes the little So Julianne nods. Because she does too. Squints up at Michael.
JULIANNE: Got a minute? He nods, you bet. Worried for her. What is this? She looks in another direction, and we now see that we have nearly reached. . a stage that's been set up for the band. Chairs, music stands, sound equipment. A gleaming dance floor, already in place over the lawn. Next to it, a shimmering white GAZEBO. Like the centerpiece of a wedding cake.
JULIANNE: Why is the dance floor by the She takes his hand. They walk toward it.
MICHAEL: Kimmy's idea. She thought it would be such a romantic place. For our wedding dance. Looking down at her.
MICHAEL: What's up?
JULIANNE: Up the white steps now. Together. The gazebo floor has been covered with hardwood. The perfect place. For a wedding dance. And Julianne. . turns, suddenly. He almost runs into her. She is staring up at him, so strangely, their bodies only inches apart. He is caught, transfixed by the intensity in her eyes.
JULIANNE: I have to say this quick, okay, or I'll have this massive coronary and you'll never have to hear it. Which you need to. Does that make any sense at all? The coronary part does. We can feel her heart beating from here.
MICHAEL: Jules, what's wrong.
JULIANNE: This is the dumbest thing I will ever do. So dumb, in fact, that I can't. I don't think. And then, she does. She puts her hands flat on his chest. Looks in his eyes.
JULIANNE: Michael, I love you. A heartbeat passes.
JULIANNE: I've loved you for nine years, but I was too arrogant and scared to realize it. Now I'm just scared. He stares at her, dumbstruck. She moves even closer.
JULIANNE: I know this comes at an inopportune time, but I have to ask this one really gigantic favor, okay? Holds her breath. And.
JULIANNE: Choose me. Marry me. Let me make you happy. And in a half beat of excruciating silence.
JULIANNE: I know. It sounds like three His eyes are loving. They care for her. She swallows, lost in But when you think about it. Slides her arms around his neck, and raises her mouth. . to his. The most beautiful kiss she will ever offer. All of her heart is in this, and as his hands touch her body. . a SCREAM rips the world to pieces. They whirl to see. . KIMMY, halfway up the path. Her hands across her mouth, as if to stem the horror that pours forth as she SHRIEKS from her soul, . runs. Back Down the path. Michael BOLTING after her, SHOUTING her name. A frozen moment, and. . Julianne TAKES OFF after him. All three running, SCREAMING their various emotions at the top of their lungs, as workmen stop to watch from neighboring countries. Kimmy, staring from halfway there, has an insurmountable lead. LEAPS into her convertible and PEELS OUT, just TEARING up the gravel as she ROCKETS out of sight. No way to catch her. Still. . Michael is racing for the cars. Julianne, sprinting her guts out, losing ground with every stride. Michael JUMPS into a MICHAEL, DON'T, YOU'LL NEVER CATCH HER!! He GRINDS the gears. She keeps RUNNING. His engine FIRES.
JULIANNE: But when you think about it. Slides her arms around his neck, and raises her mouth. . to his. The most beautiful kiss she will ever offer. All of her heart is in this, and as his hands touch her body. . a SCREAM rips the world to pieces. They whirl to see. . KIMMY, halfway up the path. Her hands across her mouth, as if to stem the horror that pours forth as she SHRIEKS from her soul, . runs. Back Down the path. Michael BOLTING after her, SHOUTING her name. A frozen moment, and. . Julianne TAKES OFF after him. All three running, SCREAMING their various emotions at the top of their lungs, as workmen stop to watch from neighboring countries. Kimmy, staring from halfway there, has an insurmountable lead. LEAPS into her convertible and PEELS OUT, just TEARING up the gravel as she ROCKETS out of sight. No way to catch her. Still. . Michael is racing for the cars. Julianne, sprinting her guts out, losing ground with every stride. Michael JUMPS into a MICHAEL, DON'T, YOU'LL NEVER CATCH HER!! He GRINDS the gears. She keeps RUNNING. His engine FIRES.
JULIANNE: MICHAEL, DON'T, YOU'LL NEVER CATCH HER!! He GRINDS the gears. She keeps RUNNING. His engine FIRES.
CATCH HER!!: He GRINDS the gears. She keeps RUNNING. His engine FIRES.
JULIANNE: SHE HAS TOO BIG A LEAD AND SHE DRIVES LIKE A RABID ANIMAL!!! He BLASTS OFF. She keeps going. Gasping for air, clutching her side, she's dying here. Slams into a florist's truck, looks inside, shit! Next, a butcher's van, looks inside, Jesus!
JULIANNE: ( to the world at large )
TRUST??: Up ahead, Michael has STALLED the Cherokee. She still has a chance, DASHES to the next van. BORNSTEIN EXTERMINATION, a handsome rendering of a rat above the TOXIC MATERIALS warning FLINGS the door open. Stumbles in. Keys!
JULIANNE: IT IS NOT GOING WELL! Down the block, Michael WHIPS around a corner. We follow suit to see his destination dead ahead. Union Station. The DISPATCHER RADIO DISPATCHER ( O.S. ) Uh, Unit Four Baker Charlie, how we cookin' on that Skokiie Now she's steering the car, tearing at the radio controls, and screaming into the phone cradled on her shoulder.
JULIANNE: THIS IS WHAT COMES OF TELLING THE TRUTH! FIELD MAN ( O.S. ) Copy, dispatcher.
THE TRUTH!: FIELD MAN ( O.S. )
JULIANNE: OR EVEN PART OF IT! FIELD MAN ( O.S. ) Uh, what happens if you got that methyl-ethyl shit on your hands? Michael RIPS into the train station's parking lot. We SWERVE around a taxi, CUT OFF Harley, CAREEN into the lot.
JULIANNE: GETTING WHAT YOU DESERVE IS NOT FAIR! DISPATCHER ( O.S. ) Uh, you got maybe thirty seconds before you're sterile. For God's sake don't touch yourself, or Up ahead, Michael is OUT of his jeep and running.
NOT FAIR!: DISPATCHER ( O.S. ) Up ahead, Michael is OUT of his jeep and running.
JULIANNE: AND I HATE TALKING TO YOUR She SLAMS on the brakes, THROWING herself against the wheel.
MACHINE!: She SLAMS on the brakes, THROWING herself against the wheel.
JULIANNE: He DISAPPEARS behind the train, she FALLS, skids, springs up, pushes through gaping onlookers, almost there, the train PULLS
MICHAEL!!: He DISAPPEARS behind the train, she FALLS, skids, springs up, pushes through gaping onlookers, almost there, the train PULLS
JULIANNE: But he's just standing there. His back to us. Watching it go. Her body nearly collapses with relief. She pushes herself on, but her legs aren't working right in their maxed-out fatigue, and she lopes and staggers until she comes up behind him. He's still lost in thought, staring after the train. She tries to speak, but there's no breath. So she puts her hands on her knees and just GASPS for air like a dog. Wheezing, panting, trying once more to speak, but she can't yet, and then he casually turns and. . JUMPS out of his skin! A heart attack seeing her.
NNNOOOO!!!: But he's just standing there. His back to us. Watching it go. Her body nearly collapses with relief. She pushes herself on, but her legs aren't working right in their maxed-out fatigue, and she lopes and staggers until she comes up behind him. He's still lost in thought, staring after the train. She tries to speak, but there's no breath. So she puts her hands on her knees and just GASPS for air like a dog. Wheezing, panting, trying once more to speak, but she can't yet, and then he casually turns and. . JUMPS out of his skin! A heart attack seeing her.
JULIANNE: ( croaks ) Don't speak! He just blinks at this sweaty, ripped-up, maniacal figure.
MICHAEL: Uh. I saw that moving.
JULIANNE: DON'T SPEAK! FLINGING both her hands across his mouth. A frozen beat. He nods, okay. Cautiously, she takes her hands away. At least she has made him smile, in spite of everything. At least she's done that.
DON'T SPEAK!: FLINGING both her hands across his mouth. A frozen beat. He nods, okay. Cautiously, she takes her hands away. At least she has made him smile, in spite of everything. At least she's done that.
JULIANNE: I have to make a confession. Another confession. Besides that I love you. This is even This. He's waiting to hear.
JULIANNE: The E-mail? You thought Walter sent your boss? I wrote that. You. WHAT?! Synapse overload.
MICHAEL: You're not saying you actually. you're saying that y.
JULIANNE: ( stricken with remorse ) . wrote it, yeah. I'm the bad guy.
MICHAEL: ARE YOU CRAZY? She nods her head wildly, hair flopping.
MICHAEL: ARE YOU ABSOLUTELY INSANE?? Bigger nodding.
MICHAEL: ARE YOU ON DRUGS??? Shakes her head, like a two-year-old.
MICHAEL: ( pacing in circles ) I mean, do you realize what you've. well, of course you realize, that's why you're confessing, I mean. I mean. how could you do that?
JULIANNE: I didn't know it would get sent. I just wanted you to. get mad at Kimmy. and. And watching. As this begins to sink in.
JULIANNE: I've done nothing but slimy, underhanded, despicable, not even terribly imaginative, things. Ever since I got here. Trying to. Staring in his eyes. Eyes she can't read at this point.
JULIANNE: . to win you. To win you Tears in her own eyes now. Big ones.
JULIANNE: And I was blinded by love. Like you said. Shaking her head.
JULIANNE: But that doesn't excuse any part of it. I am pond scum. Actually. Lower. I am the fungus that feeds on pond scum. Lower. The layer of mucous that cruds up the fung.
JULIANNE: Actually. Lower. I am the fungus that feeds on pond scum. Lower. The layer of mucous that cruds up the fung.
MICHAEL: ( agreeing ) The pus that infects the mucous that cruds up the fungus. And to her amazement. The trace of a smile.
JULIANNE: ( agreeing ) The pus that infects the mucous that cruds up the fungus. And to her amazement. The trace of a smile.
MICHAEL: The pus that infects the mucous that cruds up the fungus. And to her amazement. The trace of a smile.
MICHAEL: ( softly ) On the other hand, thank you. She blinks at that. Which squeezes out a tear.
MICHAEL: For loving me that much, that He shrugs. Just above a whisper.
MICHEL: It's pretty flattering.
JULIANNE: Except it makes me fungus.
MICHAEL: Well, that part I knew. She's never loved him more.
JULIANNE: So you have to marry Kim. Because she will actually make you happy. I, in contrast, am a shallow, neurotic psychopath, with relatively little to offer. Kim. Nod your head. Do as you're told. He nods his head, still smiling. Her tears are running now. Maybe she doesn't notice.
JULIANNE: Kim. Nod your head. Do as you're told. He nods his head, still smiling. Her tears are running now. Maybe she doesn't notice.
JULIANNE: Just promise you'll never tell me who you would have chosen. If I hadn't confessed. She chokes back a sob.
JULIANNE: Cos if you would have chosen me. Then I threw away a perfectly good life. Just to be a decent person. Which is a questionable trade-off. Right? He nods, slowly. Because he's supposed to.
JULIANNE: And if you would have chosen some 20-year-old punk over me. I'd have to kill myself. Ah. His smile keeps getting smaller. More loving. More wonderful.
MICHAEL: ( whispers ) I'll take it to my grave. Good. She looks around.
JULIANNE: I'm so glad you didn't jump on that train, before.
MICHAEL: I came here, looking for her. For her. The words leave a silence.
JULIANNE: Why would she come here.
MICHAEL: This is where I proposed. Stares deep in her eyes. She needs to hear this.
MICHAEL: I had to cover a game in Milwaukee. She saw me off. And when the train started to leave. I jumped up on the step, I help the handle, and He grins. Has to admit.
MICHAEL: . without a thought in my head. I shouted, "Marry me." I did. Now her eyes tear up again. And she doesn't know why.
MICHAEL: And she gasped, and covered her mouth, and the train was pulling out, and suddenly she screamed YES! Just once. And blew me a What a girl.
MICHAEL: I never forgot that.
JULIANNE: It's two weeks.
MICHAEL: Almost three.
JULIANNE: That is so romantic. Which makes him reach and touch her hair.
MICHAEL: I just wonder if you know why. Do you?
MICHAEL: It's because romance isn't mystery, and tricks, and doubts, and halting, unspoken longings. That's not the real romance. Tears in his eyes now. First time.
MICHAEL: The real romance is saying yes. Does she know that now? He looks at his watch.
MICHAEL: ( sighs ) Woulda been a nice wedding. Oh. That.
JULIANNE: ( urgently ) You can't believe you've lost her! Sooner or later, you'll find her, and you'll look in each other's eyes, and you'll see all that love.
JULIANNE: Course, if it's later rather than sooner, I'd hate to be you at six o'clock. You've got a lot of explaining I'm just thinking of how she's hurting. Lost. Alone. Like her life is over.
MICHAEL: I'm just thinking of how she's hurting. Lost. Alone. Like her life is over.
JULIANNE: That's little egotistical. He glares at her.
JULIANNE: But, undoubtedly accurate. She claps her hands, galvanized by the emergency.
JULIANNE: Okay, we'll split up. You go to every romantic place you guys have, I'll go. someplace brilliant, and the first one If you find her. Strange tone. A gentle warning.
MICHAEL: If you find her. Strange tone. A gentle warning.
MICHAEL: The kiss. May be hard. For you to explain. Because the only fear she really has, is.
JULIANNE: . me, yeah. And she likes Tommy Lasorda. Case closed. Looks at her own watch. Shit!
MICHAEL: But if you do get to her first. She looks up.
MICHAEL: There is something you are authorized to say.
JULIANNE: It's Jules, you guys haven't had a call from, say, Kimberly, have you?
JULIANNE: Ex-cuse me?
JULIANNE: You are so right. What a nerve on that guy! Bring my dress to church, huh? Signals the driver, let's GO!
JULIANNE: I want to pick up a little something for the ceremony.
BODYGUARD: She wouldn't confide in me, so I called the house. He sighs. Feels terrible about all this.
BODYGUARD: Luckily, I got her cousin. Julianne nods. Yeah, big break, there.
JULIANNE: Going to the john, she said?
BODYGUARD: Could be there awhile.
JULIANNE: YO! IMMIGRATION! Everybody stops. Pays attention.
JULIANNE: I GOT A WARRANT FOR MS. KIMBERLY Silence. From the long line of stalls.
WALLACE!: Silence. From the long line of stalls.
KIMMY: ( O.S., sobbing ) In here, you bitch! Now everybody's really interested. Julianne ignores them, strides to the stall. KNOCKS, like it's a door. No answer.
JULIANNE: Let me in, baby, or I'll rip this damn thing off its non- code-compliant hinges.
KIMMY: ( O.S., still sobbing ) Over here, nitwit!
JULIANNE: And she crawls UNDER the door, on her belly. We go WITH her to . Kim fully dressed, perched on the closed toilet lid, her knees drawn up, her arms around them.
JULIANNE: And pulls herself up to her knees. Kimmy tries to glare, but it just isn't in her.
KIMMY: Haven't you done enough? The world gets real quiet. An entire bathroom is listening. Julianne cocks her head to one side.
JULIANNE: In one minute. You are going to feel so foolish.
KIMMY: WHY DON'T YOU JUST DRIVE A STAKE THROUGH MY HEART? Have you ever heard of. Irony? Kimmy sniffles.
JULIANNE: Have you ever heard of. Irony? Kimmy sniffles.
JULIANNE: I threw my arms around your husband. And kissed him with all my heart. Because I was so happy. For you. Nitwit. And leans close. As Kimmy flinches.
JULIANNE: ( whispers ) He's going to take. ( big grin ) The job! A stunned pole-axed moment. And Kimmy's eyes SPRING open. You ( beaming ) With your dad, yeah. Can you guess why? Bitch? Everything inside Kimmy BURSTS free in a torrent of tears.
JULIANNE: ( beaming ) With your dad, yeah. Can you guess why? Bitch? Everything inside Kimmy BURSTS free in a torrent of tears.
KIMMY: HE LOVES ME!! And DISSOLVES, sobbing, into Julianne's arms. A beat, for Julianne to reflect, and then she strokes her tenderly.
JULIANNE: Well, of course, he loves Kisses the top of Kimmy's head.
JULIANNE: ( very soft ) Hell, even I love you. Kimmy holds her tight. From her heart.
JULIANNE: I never want to go through this That's entirely understandable. ANGLES. outside the stall. Julianne's feet sticking out under the door.
KIMMY: That's entirely understandable. ANGLES. outside the stall. Julianne's feet sticking out under the door.
SAMMY: Whatever hap.
JULIANNE: ( cutting this short ) We were bonding, we lost track, we're officially sorry, now let's put it behind us. Kim WAVES at her mom by the chapel entrance. And takes Julianne's hand for support.
JULIANNE: Believe me, we got a bride who's worth waiting for, yes? Everybody nods.
JULIANNE: Out of our way.
JULIANNE: Don't worry, sugar. Don't worry.
JULIANNE: When he looks at you, it will be as if. The words stronger. Because there is no smile.
JULIANNE: . he's never seen a woman PAN DOWN the white until we are. CLOSE on the bride's perfect slippers. HOLD. And.
WALTER: ( whispers ) Left foot. REVERSE ANGLE. Kim's POV, the chapel, every pew packed, every neck craning this way, the white satin carpet down the endless aisle to Michael waits. Also in a zone of pseudo-consciousness. From which he attempts a smile. Not comforting. Kim's POV WHIP PAN the groomsmen, the twins, LOCKING FOCUS on Julianne, standing strong and beautiful, a glow of her own in the daffodil dress. She sends her little sister a WINK across the trackless miles of aisle. You can do this, kid. So. . Kimmy does. On her father's arm, she walks the gauntlet of the world's intrusive admiration. One step at a time. The most beautiful she will ever be. She is dazzling the crowd and managing to not throw up at the same time. And she's there. At his side. She glances back to her maid of honor, just to make sure she's not working without a net. So . CROSSES her eyes. Which lets the kid smile and finally take a breath. Have a little fun, huh? Kim nods, got it, turns to. The Minister. Who stands before them with a calming presence. Thank God someone has done this before. The crowd has hushed. The Minister's eyes are only for two. His words are for all.
MINISTER: Michael and Kimmy wrote these words. She asked me to confide, mostly Michael. A ripple of laughter. Gentle and fine. They are setting in.
MINISTER: So he gets to say them. A surprise. A pleasant one. The crowd adjust in its seats. As Michael begins.
MICHAEL: Why do people get married And on these words. We SNAP to Julianne. Share her interest in the bluntness, the simplicity, the unorthodoxy of this beginning.
MICHAEL: That's what we want. And marriage. Is what we do about it. Kimmy smiles at him. With love bigger than life itself.
MICHAEL: We are fools in this. Thank God Almighty. He is done. There is a silence.
MINISTER: Boy, that was good! People LAUGH. The Minister holds up a sheet of paper. For the crowd to see. Mostly paragraphs crossed out in red ink.
MINISTER: Michael and Kim also edited what they want me to say. More laughter.
MINISTER: The idea was, we're only marrying once. We have to remember it forever. Let's keep to the good You may kiss the bride. Bigger LAUGHTER. The Minister waves this off, his little joke. Turns to the best man, pantomimes the ring. As the hammered gold circle is handed to Michael, Julianne absently scratches her still- swollen finger. Mandy taps Julianne on the arm, and produces. . a matching ring. Take it! Gives it to her. So Julianne steps forward. Places the second ring into Kimmy's waiting hand. Their eyes meet, and hold throughout.
MICHAEL: Kimberly. I promise to love. And respect and comfort you. To hear your voice and your heart. Until we are parted by death. She swallows. Smiles a fleeting, beautiful smile. Fumbles slightly, putting the ring on his finger.
KIMMY: Michael. I promise to love and respect and comfort you. To hear your voice and your heart. Until we are parted by death. Staring in each other's eyes. A moment so fragile, the Minister waits an extra beat.
MINISTER: For the record, you each agree to marry the other?
KIMMY: ( quickly ) I do!
MICHAEL: ( smiling ) I do. The Minister joins their right hands.
MINISTER: We haven't said much about God this evening, I know. But He is here. And He is happy. To bless His wonderful children. CLOSE now on Julianne. For the inevitable moment.
JULIANNE: I'm a writer, too, not as good as Michael. But I do steal from quality. She raises her glass. Everyone at the table does the same.
JULIANNE: This is to my best friend. On the occasion of his wedding. Shouts of support, a few whistles. Silence. She tells Michael.
JULIANNE: If I have truly come to know your bride as my new sister. This is in her heart. She has to stop. Swallows. Because she will not let herself cry.
JULIANNE: "Understand. I'll slip quietly away from the noisy crowd when I see the pale stars rising, blooming, over the oaks." Deep breath. Looks in his eyes.
JULIANNE: "I'll pursue solitary pathways through the pale twilit meadows, with only this one dream: You come too." A hush. SHARP applause. From four hundred hands. But not from his. He is too moved. Too understanding of what he has heard.
JULIANNE: I don't have a wedding gift. But this is on loan. Until you two find your song. And with that the band begins. The opening phrases of a song we have come to know. Michael seems overwhelmed. Julianne nods toward the gazebo. . Michael takes his bride's hand, leads her up the stairs, into his arms, as the twins step to the microphone, and guests begin to applaud an unscheduled wedding dance.
MICHAEL: Wherever I go. However far. She sobs. Holds him. Deep, deep breath.
JULIANNE: You win a few, you lose a few. Some get rained out. And to her surprise.
DIGGER: ( V.O., very softly ) You have a good time? To her greater surprise. There are a few tears left, after all.
JULIANNE: I did what I came to do.
DIGGER: ( V.O., even softer ) Good girl. She just can't speak now. So she doesn't.
JULIANNE: I'll think about it. I'm okay.
JULIANNE: You, too. And with the last of her strength.
JULIANNE: If the sun comes up, I'll see you tomorrow, huh? A chuckle. At the other end.
