BIERCE: No one can deny the horrendous nature of Mr. Frankenstein's crimes, but in the twenty years he has been with us, I have never seen a patient turn his energies to more productive CASANOVA, the picture of remorse and repentance.
BIERCE: Just look at his accomplishments. three volumes of poetry, two rock operas, a sculpture garden, four romance novels. and who can forget his touching portrayal of Billy Bigelow in our all-psychotic production of ON SEVERAL OF THE BOARD getting misty eyed at the memory of that brilliant performance.
BIERCE: Directed by our own Doctor Anabel Leek. ON DOCTOR ANABEL LEEK, the hospital's icily beautiful, ultra cool, top A moment later Casanova addresses them. His manner is charming, sincere, his voice soft, filled with emotion. He is a master of Twenty years ago I was a lost soul. ( with a son-like glance at Doctor Bierce ) ( chokes on the word ) A. psycho! ( breaks down sobbing ) Oh! How could I have done it? The murder. the mayhem. all of those lovely young girls! ( weeping, a brilliant performance ) I'm sorry! I'm SO SO SORRY! Doctor Bierce wipes the tears from his eyes. Reactions from the board, moved, as Casanova weeps convulsively. Doctor Leek shows no reaction.
CASANOVA: Twenty years ago I was a lost soul. ( with a son-like glance at Doctor Bierce ) ( chokes on the word ) A. psycho! ( breaks down sobbing ) Oh! How could I have done it? The murder. the mayhem. all of those lovely young girls! ( weeping, a brilliant performance ) I'm sorry! I'm SO SO SORRY! Doctor Bierce wipes the tears from his eyes. Reactions from the board, moved, as Casanova weeps convulsively. Doctor Leek shows no reaction.
CASANOVA: ( pulls himself together ) But my deeds have been done, and my youth is gone, and we can only go forward in this cruel world. and if I have learned anything from my wretched life it is that. When you walk through a storm, keep your head held high. And don't be afraid of the dark. Tears plop dawn the cheeks of the review board as the FULLY
CASANOVA: ( almost wistfully ) And the hospital EXPLODES in a HUGE FIREBALL that completely consumes Those gas leaks can be murder.
CASANOVA: Those gas leaks can be murder.
CASANOVA: I'm home.
BIG RED: Who said crime don't pay? The Red Eyes laugh. as Red Eye 3 takes the cover off the baby stroller and sees. that there's a BABY still in it.
BIG RED: And what if he rats on us? The others hadn't thought of that.
BIG RED: Stick a brick in his Pampers and dump him in the lake. The others think that's a good idea and look around for a brick.
RAJA: Not so fast, gentlemenand I use the term loosely. Unhand that youngster. Another man steps into the light. He wears a construction helmet and mask. There is an "S" on his chest, and he carries an old shovel. He is THE SHOVELER.
SHOVELER: Or you're mulch. He brandishes his shovel for effect. The Red Eyes look at these two, highly amused.
BIG RED: What are you guys supposed to be. A third man steps out. His costume is less dramatic than the others. He wears only an old leather jacket and a faded, torn shirt with flames on it, but the fierce look on his face and the atrociousness of his haircut make it very clear that he is the craziest and most dangerous of the three. He is MISTER FURIOUS.
FURIOUS: We ARE superheroes!
BIG RED: Really? Did you mother make those costumes? The crooks howl with laughter.
BIG RED: This is our territory. Beat it.
FURIOUS: Over YOUR dead body. Big Red turns to the others and shakes with pretended fear.
BIG RED: 0ooooo, he's scary. The Red Eyes laugh, but suddenly, a small silver projectile whizzes through the air and implants itself in Big Red's backside. He howls with pain, pulls it out and examines it. It's a silver dessert fork.
BIG RED: A fork! The Raja holds up his hands, each of which hold a spread of silver And there's plenty more where that came from. Big Red gives a shrill whistle, and a dozen more Red Eyes step out of an old caboose. including MIKEY, a four hundred pound behemoth. He is eating a container of Ben and Jerry's like it was an ice cream cone, taking huge bites out of it, container and all. RAJA AND SHOVELER, reacting. Gulp. This was more than they'd bargained for. But Furious just growls; he's game.
RAJA: And there's plenty more where that came from. Big Red gives a shrill whistle, and a dozen more Red Eyes step out of an old caboose. including MIKEY, a four hundred pound behemoth. He is eating a container of Ben and Jerry's like it was an ice cream cone, taking huge bites out of it, container and all. RAJA AND SHOVELER, reacting. Gulp. This was more than they'd bargained for. But Furious just growls; he's game.
BIG RED: GET 'EM! The Red Eyes attack. Mister Furious goes into a furious face; his hair stands out straight and he rushes right into the oncoming A Red Eye takes a swing at the Shovelerbut he simply puts up his shovel and lets the crook slug the shovel's pan. The crook yelps with pain and shakes his battered hand. as the Raja fends off crooks, poking them with salad forks. and the baby sits in his stroller, watching and laughing, really enjoying the show. ( There's no real martial artistry or teamwork here; this is a classic back alley brouhaha. ) But there's too many of then. The Raja goes down under swinging fists. and so does the Shoveler. Furious holds his own, taking out crooks with powerful lefts and rightsuntil Mikey runs him down like a truck, falling right on top of him and crushing him under his massive weight.
GET 'EM!: The Red Eyes attack. Mister Furious goes into a furious face; his hair stands out straight and he rushes right into the oncoming A Red Eye takes a swing at the Shovelerbut he simply puts up his shovel and lets the crook slug the shovel's pan. The crook yelps with pain and shakes his battered hand. as the Raja fends off crooks, poking them with salad forks. and the baby sits in his stroller, watching and laughing, really enjoying the show. ( There's no real martial artistry or teamwork here; this is a classic back alley brouhaha. ) But there's too many of then. The Raja goes down under swinging fists. and so does the Shoveler. Furious holds his own, taking out crooks with powerful lefts and rightsuntil Mikey runs him down like a truck, falling right on top of him and crushing him under his massive weight.
RED EYES: Crush him, Mikey!. Mash him!. Mush him!
FURIOUS: ( barely audible under all that meat ) Is that all you got?
RED EYES: He wants more!. Squish him!. Finish him Your mother! Mikey, sweating, bears down. but suddenly, a calm, very authoritative voice is heard.
FURIOUS: ( faintly ) Your mother! Mikey, sweating, bears down. but suddenly, a calm, very authoritative voice is heard.
RED EYES: IT'S CAPTAIN AMAZING! Big Red and a couple others try to run for it, but Amazing leaps ca- like off the boxcar and is on them in a flash. As the baby claps his hands in delight, and our three heroes watch in beat-up awe, Amazing deftly takes out the crooks with expert punches and effortlessly delivered elbows and kicks. He is the consumate superhero, and he doesn't even break a sweat. The remaining Red Eyes drop to their knees and throw up their hands in We give!. We're sorry!. We had terrible childhoods! ( Etc. ) Police cars and a TV truck come screeching into the train yard. and the scene is suddenly flooded vith light and swarming with cops and Our three heroes try to approach Captain Amazing ( who still looks fresh as a daisy ).
RED EYES: We give!. We're sorry!. We had terrible childhoods! ( Etc. ) Police cars and a TV truck come screeching into the train yard. and the scene is suddenly flooded vith light and swarming with cops and Our three heroes try to approach Captain Amazing ( who still looks fresh as a daisy ).
RAJA: Nice work, Captain. But Amazing just walks past them, ignoring them completely, as if they didn't even exist. He goes to greet DAWN WONG ( Champion City's answer to Connie Chung ).
AMAZING: ( turning on the old superhero charm ) Hi. Dawn.
DAWN: ( putty in his hands, pudding in his bowl ) Looks like you've done it again, Captain.
AMAZING: It's what I do. Our heroes just watch, feeling ignored, humiliated. Furious growls. Suddenly, TWO COPS are accosting them.
COP 1: Okay, show's over. Move it. On your way.
RAJA: Wait a minute, Officers. You don't understand we're superheroes, and we just busted up this Really? Let me guess-you're Towel Head and Captain Pooper Scooper! The cops crack up. Furious growls at them. The cops yank out their Hey! Move it!
COP 1: Really? Let me guess-you're Towel Head and Captain Pooper Scooper! The cops crack up. Furious growls at them. The cops yank out their Hey! Move it!
COP 1: Hey! Move it!
COP 2: Get a life!
COP 1: And leave crime fighting to the real thing! Shoveler and Raja pull Furious away before he gets into real trouble. The cops watch as our three heroes disappear into the night.
COP 1: COP 2 EXT. THE LAKESIDE DINER - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING An inner city greasy spoon.
COP 2: EXT. THE LAKESIDE DINER - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING An inner city greasy spoon.
RAJA: ( nursing a sore jaw ) He doesn't miss a trick, does he?
FURIOUS: What a jerkand like nobody knows who he really is!
SHOVELER: Oh don't start that again
FURIOUS: Furious picks up the newspaper on which there is a photo of a good looking guy in a tux at a benefit. The headline reads "Lance Hunt Hosts Benefit." He holds the picture up next to the television, so the faces of Lance Hunt and Captain Amazing are side by side. It is obviously the same guy.
LOOK!: Furious picks up the newspaper on which there is a photo of a good looking guy in a tux at a benefit. The headline reads "Lance Hunt Hosts Benefit." He holds the picture up next to the television, so the faces of Lance Hunt and Captain Amazing are side by side. It is obviously the same guy.
FURIOUS: He's Lance Hunt! Just take off the glasses and it's him!
RAJA: There's a vague similarity.
FURIOUS: A vague similarity? IT'S THE SAME GUY!
SHOVELER: ( downing some aspirin ) 0h, who gives a damn who he is? I can't take this anymore. Night after night we're on the streets, busting our humpsand for what?
RAJA: We take the licks and he gets the chicks.
SHOVELER: How long do you have to chase a dream before you realize it's not gonna happen?
FURIOUS: We need a break, that's all! Nobody'd ever heard of him until he busted Casanova But look at him. and look at us.
RAJA: But look at him. and look at us.
SHOVELER: The camera loves him. A depressed silence. Furious turns his attention to the napkin Why do they always fill stuff these things so full you can't pull 'em out without ripping
FURIOUS: ( furious ) Why do they always fill stuff these things so full you can't pull 'em out without ripping ( rips one out )
RAJA: I lost another fork tonight. She's getting suspicious, I know it.
FURIOUS: So why don't you just tell her!
RAJA: I can't.
FURIOUS: Why not?
RAJA: ( upset ) Because I can't! Okay? She wouldn't Leave him alone. She's his mother, not yours.
SHOVELER: Leave him alone. She's his mother, not yours.
FURIOUS: We had an off night, that's all.
SHOVELER: So when are we gonna have an on night? A WAITRESS is standing at the table.
WAITRESS: They look at her, taken aback. She's very pretty.
RAJA: You're. new.
WAITRESS: It's my first night. My name's Monica. CLOSE ON FURIOUS, smitten by her, but almost afraid to look at her. Under all that rage, he's in fact shy.
MONICA: You guys going to a costume party?
RAJA: We're superheroes.
MONICA: Really? Like Captain Amazing? Furious growls.
MONICA: Are you famous?
RAJA: Not yet.
MONICA: So you're like. struggling superheroes?
RAJA: We prefer to think of ourselves as unsung. I am the Blue Raja, Master of Silverware.
MONICA: And these are my associatiates, the Shoveler.
RAJA: And these are my associatiates, the Shoveler.
SHOVELER: And Mister Furious. His anger is his power.
RAJA: And Mister Furious. His anger is his power.
MONICA: ( intrigued by Furious ) Usually a superpower is a magical endowment or a great skill. In his case, it's entirely So what can I get you?
RAJA: Usually a superpower is a magical endowment or a great skill. In his case, it's entirely So what can I get you?
MONICA: So what can I get you?
RAJA: Burgers all around. A moment later as Monica walks away, Furious can't help but watch her. The Raja replaces the diner's dinnerware with the good stuff from his coat.
RAJA: She likes you.
SHOVELER: Ask her out.
RAJA: Ask her out.
FURIOUS: Roy, when was the last time you had an actual What does it matter? Women just want to control youand talk about their feelings. They want to know why you're angry all the timeand what can they can do to helpso you tell them there's nothingnothingjust leave me alonebut they bug you and they bug you and they bug youuntil you just can't stand it anymore!so you finally open upyou pop like a blisterand it all comes spewing outall your emotionsyour feelingsyour fearsall of it! And then they dump you.
RAJA: Roy, when was the last time you had an actual What does it matter? Women just want to control youand talk about their feelings. They want to know why you're angry all the timeand what can they can do to helpso you tell them there's nothingnothingjust leave me alonebut they bug you and they bug you and they bug youuntil you just can't stand it anymore!so you finally open upyou pop like a blisterand it all comes spewing outall your emotionsyour feelingsyour fearsall of it! And then they dump you.
FURIOUS: ( getting very pissed off ) What does it matter? Women just want to control youand talk about their feelings. They want to know why you're angry all the timeand what can they can do to helpso you tell them there's nothingnothingjust leave me alonebut they bug you and they bug you and they bug youuntil you just can't stand it anymore!so you finally open upyou pop like a blisterand it all comes spewing outall your emotionsyour feelingsyour fearsall of it! And then they dump you.
RAJA: So you're chicken?
FURIOUS: ( fiercely ) Who's chicken? ( gets up ) Monica stands at the counter placing her order. Furious approaches her, leans against the counter. For a moment he just stands there, fuming, unable to think of anything to say. She isn't sure what to make of this.
FURIOUS: Doesn't it piss you off the way the when you really want to talk to somebody you can't think of anything to say!
MONICA: I guess. Are you always so angry?
FURIOUS: Only when I'm awake. You busy after work? She shrugs.
FURIOUS: Want to go out and get drunk? She's visibly turned off by that.
FURIOUS: Or talk?
MONICA: Not tonight.
RAJA: Maybe you should try a more romantic approach.
FURIOUS: ( gets on his old Harley ) Like what? Cutting off my own ear?
RAJA: Or flowers.
FURIOUS: See ya tomorrow. Furious kicks his engine started and speeds off into the night as the Shoveler opens the door of his battered Ford Esquire station wagon, and the Raja gets into his ancient Datsun.
SHOVELER: Hey, when are you guys gonna clean this place When you're on TV.
TRACY: When you're on TV.
LENORE: Save any babies lately? ON THE SHOVELER, silent, hurt.
TRACY: Faster than a speeding turtle
BUTCH: More powerful than a deodorant
LENORE: Look, snoring in his chair
ALL: It's. Supergut! The kids all laugh ( in that derisive way that kids do so well ) as the Shoveler dejectedly walks into the kitchen.
LUCILLE: ( feels for him ) Rough night, Eddie? He nods.
MOTHER: Oh hi, Mom.
RAJA: Oh hi, Mom.
MOTHER: What are you doing in the silver drawer?
RAJA: Looking for. the TV Guide. She just looks at him, very suspicious.
MOTHER: It's on the television.
RAJA: Of course. I'm such a fool. Thanks, Mummy. Go to bed. He kisses her and goes into the next room. CAMERA HOLDS ON MOM; she doesn't trust him.
FURIOUS: Amazing? What's so amazing about him? I'd be amazing, too, if I'd inherited two hundred million bucks. or two bucks. or two Who am I kidding? Dreams don't come true. A moment of despondency, and then he hears a strange sound overhead and looks up.
FURIOUS: Where's he going?
AMAZING: ( just as he suspected ) He sees that the skylight is open, and quietly lets himself in.
CASANOVA: I hope you enjoy these cigars. I had to kill a dozen Cubans to get them.
TONY P: Have you considered my offer?
CASANOVA: Have you considered my offer?
TONY P: You know, Mr. F, me and the boys always loved workin' for you. You had such style: the clothes, the dancin', the elegant way you'd snuff a babe. You were the King. Casanova accepts this graciously.
TONY P: But times have changed, and you been in that bug house a long tine. I can see you still got the style, but I dunno for sure you still got the edge.
CASANOVA: I got it.
TONY P: What about Captain Amazing?
CASANOVA: I knew you'd cone. I left that skylight open for you.
AMAZING: I know you did.
CASANOVA: I knew you'd know.
AMAZING: I know you knew I'd know.
CASANOVA: But did you know I knew you'd know I'd know?
AMAZING: Of course. Tony P makes a move for his pistol, but Captain Amazing instantly whips out his pistol, getting the drop on him.
AMAZING: I'd hate to waste a good bullet on a piece of scum like you, Tony. Tony freezes.
AMAZING: The jig is up, Casanova. I've spent six months watching you, and know exactly what you're up I know that you're recruiting your old Nervous reaction from Tony P.
CASANOVA: I know that you're recruiting your old Nervous reaction from Tony P.
AMAZING: I know that you're recruiting your old Nervous reaction from Tony P.
AMAZING: I know who your girlfriend really is. Icy reaction from Anabel.
AMAZING: And I know the terrible revenge that you plan to inflict on this city.
CASANOVA: I guess you know just about everything, don't you, Lance?
AMAZING: Except for one little thing.
CASANOVA: Except for one little thing.
AMAZING: ( supremely confident ) And what's that?
CASANOVA: That I've hot wired the city's entire power supply through that catwalk.
AMAZING: Casanova suddenly throws a secret breaker switch, and the ugly hum of a million volts instantly fills the room.
BOSS: YO! CAPTAIN SOMINEX! Get your shut-eye at home, or you'll be a full time superhero!
ANTHONY: It's all within your power. The only thing that's in your way is YOU!
RAJA: Easy for you to say.
SALLY: Hey, Roy!
SALLY: How many times I gotta tell you about this?
FURIOUS: Sally, that's a Herkimer Battle Jitney! They don't make 'em like that anymore. It's a It's a hunk of junk. I want the iron. Do it! She walks away. Furious growls. He picks up his iron bar and is about to wedge it under the front bumper of the Herkimer.
SALLY: It's a hunk of junk. I want the iron. Do it! She walks away. Furious growls. He picks up his iron bar and is about to wedge it under the front bumper of the Herkimer.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: .and continues to deny any knowledge of the incident. In local news, millionaire Lance Hunt has apparently disappeared. ON FURIOUS, taking immediate notice.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: Members at his household told police that the playboy philanthropist failed to return home last night after "going out for a walk". Police say they have no reason yet to suspect foul play, but a search is under way.
FURIOUS: I saw him go inand he didn't come out!
RAJA: But we don't know for sure it's the same guy. Furious groans.
SHOVELER: Hey, look.
CASANOVA: Well, Don, I've done some terrible things in my life, but now I'm cured, and I just want to give back something to my old home town. That's why I'm using what's left of my fortune to build. CLOSE ON A MODEL of a huge concrete bunker-like institutional structure ( i.e. the Getty )
DON: You've changed, haven't you?
CASANOVA: Oh yes. BACK ON FURIOUS, RAJA, and SHOVELER -
FURIOUS: No he hasn't.
FURIOUS: ( about to climb over ) Let's go.
RAJA: ( in a whisper, holding him back ) Wait!. Look!
RAJA: This is bad.
SHOVELER: Who are they?
RAJA: The Disco Boys.
FURIOUS: The who?
RAJA: The most vicious gang of thugs this city ever produced. Twenty years ago they were Casanova's personal bodyguard. But after he was busted they crawled into the woodwork.
FURIOUS: Well they've crawled back out.
SHOVELER: We may be getting in over our heads here.
RAJA: This looks like a job for Superman
SHOVELER: Or Batman
RAJA: Or both.
FURIOUS: Don't you guys get it? If Captain Amazing is still in there, we can rescue himand get on
TV!: ( goes right over the wall ) They share an exasperated look, then scramble over the wall after him.
CASANOVA: Everything's going exactly as we planned.
ANABEL: ( puts the sharp point of her comb handle under his chin ) Not quite. You haven't announced our engagement yet.
CASANOVA: It must have slipped my mind.
ANABEL: Your mind is so slippery.
CASANOVA: Don't worry, Pootchkie. My womanizing days are over. You're my Lady Macbeth, my Imelda. my We're such an incredible team. Who could possibly stop us? ( kisses her )
RAJA: Don't crunch the leaves.
SHOVELER: Be a Mohican.
RAJA: Be a Mohican.
FURIOUS: ( They all stop. ) I hear something. They all listen; there is a low rushing sound. It is the sound of water rushing through pipes. Suddenly, the lawn sprinklers all pop up. and our heroes get drenched. They duck off the lawn, behind the cover of a large tree.
RAJA: I'm soaked. Oh great.
FURIOUS: Be a Mohican.
SHOVELER: Be a Mohican.
RAJA: Shut up. Furious sees a pair of French doors, off a small patio. One of the doors is slightiy open.
FURIOUS: Come on. They start sneaking toward it, but as they cross the patio. they trip the automatic security lighting, and suddenly find themselves bathed in As our heroes look around as a dozen Disco Boys, armed with pipes, chains, brass knuckles, step into the light and encircle them. The French doors open and Tony P steps out.
RAJA: As our heroes look around as a dozen Disco Boys, armed with pipes, chains, brass knuckles, step into the light and encircle them. The French doors open and Tony P steps out.
RAJA: Oh I'm sorry. We must have the wrong house.
TONY P: You sure do. The Disco Boys attack. The Raja is instantly clubbed down. The Shoveler deflects only a blow or two with his shovel before he goes down, too. These guys are not the Red Eyes. Only Furious holds his own. He grabs a pipe away from one of them and swings fiercely, keeping the others off. Suddenly, the Disco Boys pull back. Furious doesn't know why, until he turns and sees. Casanova, standing right behind him, smiling.
CASANOVA: Hi there. With a cat-like move Casanova slashes his gold chain viciouslyand repeatedlyacross Furious' face. Furious, stunned with pain, lunges at Casanova, who neatly steps aside, then catches him with a fast combination of spinning disco kicks. Finally he lassos the chain around Furious' neck, and pulls it tight, strangling him. ON THE DISCO BOYS, watching, snapping their fingers with admiration. Casanova releases Furious, who slumps to the ground. Casanova steps away, and the Disco Boys gather around Furious and kick him viciously. as Casanova and Tony P watch, amused, chuckling.
CASANOVA: TONY P Should I kill them?
TONY P: Should I kill them?
CASANOVA: ( completely disdainful ) Why bother?
MONICA: Here you go.
RAJA: Maybe you guys ought to forget this Superhero stuff and join Kiwanis or something. A FUSSY CUSTOMER is calling out from another table.
MONICA: Maybe you guys ought to forget this Superhero stuff and join Kiwanis or something. A FUSSY CUSTOMER is calling out from another table.
FUSSY CUSTORER: She moves off.
RAJA: Maybe she's right.
FURIOUS: ( still furious ) Are you serious? This is the break we've been waiting for!
SHOVELER: What are you talking about?
FURIOUS: What have the famous superheroes got that we Archenemies! Casanova isn't just a criminal he's a supervillain. Stopping him could be our ticket to fame, fortuneand babes!
RAJA: Archenemies! Casanova isn't just a criminal he's a supervillain. Stopping him could be our ticket to fame, fortuneand babes!
FURIOUS: Archenemies! Casanova isn't just a criminal he's a supervillain. Stopping him could be our ticket to fame, fortuneand babes!
SHOVELER: And it would be the right thing to do.
FURIOUS: ( dismissively ) Yeah yeahand that, too.
RAJA: But there's only three of us, and he's got the entire brotherhood of evil at his disposal.
FURIOUS: Then maybe it's time for us to form our own
SHOVELER: I'm liking this.
FURIOUS: I say we send out the wordand summon all of the unsung superheroes we know!
RAJA: ( after a moment ) Yeah, but. who do we know? They take a long moment to ponder this.
FURIOUS: Well. there's the Spleen. Shoveler and Raja make disgusted noises.
RAJA: Do we have to?
SHOVELER: I got this cousin. He's a real doofus, but he claims he can become invisible.
FURIOUS: Have you ever seen him?
SHOVELER: How could I see him if he's invisible?
FURIOUS: Good point.
RAJA: And there's the Sphinx.
SHOVELER: The who?
RAJA: He's a legendary masked Mexican crime fighting superwrestler and master of the machete.
FURIOUS: Sounds good.
RAJA: No one's sure that he actually exists, but they say he can be contacted by leaving a message on a crumpled up napkin at the Tacky Taco down by the bus station.
SHOVELER: Get outta here.
FURIOUS: You sure that's how you spell it?
SHOVELER: CLOSE ON THE NOTE - which reads "Spinks, we need you." They crumple up the napkin and leave the restaurant. A moment later a shy looking MEXICAN MAN busses their tray. but in A CLOSE ANGLE we see him secretly pocket the napkin.
FURIOUS: So, let me get this straight. You have the power to become invisible.
INVISIBLE BOY: But. only when no one is looking.
RAJA: But. only when no one is looking.
INVISIBLE BOY: If someone looks at you, you immediately become visible again.
FURIOUS: If someone looks at you, you immediately become visible again.
INVISIBLE BOY: So you're only invisible. to yourself?
RAJA: So you're only invisible. to yourself?
INVISIBLE BOY: OUR HEROES ( hopefully ) INVISIBLE BOY If I look at myseif, I become visible.
OUR HEROES: ( hopefully ) INVISIBLE BOY If I look at myseif, I become visible.
INVISIBLE BOY: If I look at myseif, I become visible.
RAJA: So you're only invisible, when abuolutely no one is looking at you?
INVISIBLE BOY: So how do you know that you've ever been I just know. Our heroes are less than impressed.
FURIOUS: So how do you know that you've ever been I just know. Our heroes are less than impressed.
INVISIBLE BOY: I just know. Our heroes are less than impressed.
FURIOUS: Look, kid, we've got a lot of heroes to I know I haven't got it entirely worked out yet, but I've always dreamed of becoming a superhero. Weren't you guys ever a kid? Didn't you ever need someone to just give you a ON OUR HEROES, looking around the room. and softening up.
INVISIBLE BOY: ( desperate ) I know I haven't got it entirely worked out yet, but I've always dreamed of becoming a superhero. Weren't you guys ever a kid? Didn't you ever need someone to just give you a ON OUR HEROES, looking around the room. and softening up.
SPLEEN: Boy I can't tell you how thrilled I was when you guys calledYou gonna eat that pickle? I've always dreamed of being a member of the a real superhero teamand to have friendsreal friendsI mean guys I could live withsleep withdie witheat with. He puts the mustard dispenser to his lips and squeezes it straight into his mouth.
SPLEEN: I love mustard. Furious, Raja, and the Shoveler react; they can't believe they've actually invited this guy to join their group.
INVISIBLE BOY: So what exactly is your superpower?
SPLEEN: Well, when I was a kid I grew up on Love Canal- -remember that?and my brothers and I used to go swimming in itmake Kool-Aid out of it stuff like that. Anyway my brothers all died, but I lived, and I grew all these like weird organs that have never been seen in humans before. So now I can do things like this! He leans over the table and lets just a little tiny drop of spittle dribble onto the table.
SPLEEN: Cool, huh? The Spleen inadvertently gives the tiniest little burp, and our three heroes duck out of the way or under the table.
SPLEEN: Sorry, sorry.
SHOVELER: Hey, why don't you just put a cork in it?
SPLEEN: I tried that once. The cork melted.
SHOVELER: There's just not enough of us.
FURIOUS: But we know they're out there. Hundredsmaybe thousands of lonely, unknown superheroes, who desperately need a cause.
RAJA: And a social life.
SHOVELER: Yeah, but how do we get to them?
SPLEEN: Obscene phone calls? They ignore that suggestion.
MONICA: Why don't you throw a barbecue? ON OUR HEROES, realizing that's it.
SPLEEN: Come on in! The water's great! In fact, the water is turning a yellowish green. The rest of our heroes sit around on cheap folding chairs. No superheroes have shown up. The Shoveler, at the grill, serves burgers to his kids, who stand in line waiting for them.
BUTCH: ( heavy on the sarcasm ) Great picnic, Dad.
ROLAND: Are these guys real superheroes?
LENORE: They think so. The kids scoff. A moment later they head back to the house with their burgers.
ROLAND: But where's Captain Amazing?
SPLEEN: Hey, these pool mints are delicious! Raja looks at his watch.
RAJA: Maybe there was traffic.
FURIOUS: Who are we kidding? No one's gonna show. We're living in a fantasy!
INVISIBLE BOY: Come on, guyswe're fighting against evil.
FURIOUS: Good or evil, what's the difference?
SHOVELER: There's a big difference.
FURIOUS: I used to believe that. Now I'm not so sure.
RAJA: Roy, remember, it is all within your power. The only thing that's in your way. is you.
FURIOUS: Oh shut up. Suddenly, there is a knock at the gate. Everyone immediately perks up.
INVISIBLE BOY: They're here! A moment later they open the gate and see. HALF A DOZEN BURLY GUYS wearing various superhero outfits.
THEIR LEADER: Hey, man, is this the superhero wingding?
RAJA: This is it. Come on in!
SUPERHEROES: All right! Party! ( Etc. ) At first glance these guys seem promising. but their outfits are decidedly improvised: weird goggles and sunglasses, shower curtain capes, baseball caps with beer cans on them. Their leader holds a squeegee with a long handle. Furious is suspicious.
RAJA: I am the Blue Raja, Master of Silverware.
THEIR LEADER: I am Squeegee Man, and these are my compadres, the Invincible Dudes! The Invincible Dudes spot the keg.
INVINCIBLE DUDES: Whoa! Brews! Party! ( Etc. ) They go immediately to the keg and start filling beer cups and guzzling them down. The Raja tries to hand out some forms.
RAJA: Would you mind filling out these forms; names, addresses, description of superpowers, that sort of thing.
INVINCIBLE DUDES: Sure, dude. No problem. ( Etc. ) ON FURIOUS, watching, starting to get pissed off.
RAJA: Actually we lied about the babes, but there's plenty of burgers.
INVINCIBLE DUDES: That's false advertising!. We came all the way from South Champion, man! We coulda gone plinking!. We coulda gone bunqee jumping!
SQUEEGEE MAN: No babes. No peace. No babesno peace! No babesno peace! No babesno peace!
SQUEEGEE MAN: Let's trash the place!
INVINCIBLE DUDES: Furious, fed up, confronts Squeegee Man.
FURIOUS: If you're a superhero, what's your power?
SQUEEGEE MAN: I am Squeegee Man. Touch my squeegee. and you die. The Invincible Dudes are cracking up.
FURIOUS: Can you fly?
SQUEEGEE MAN: Wanna bet?
FURIOUS: Wanna bet?
INVINCIBLE DUDES: Let's get out of here!. That dude's crazy! They take off down the street, running right past a woman, carrying a bowling ball bag and dressed in a faded, threadbare old rayon superhero costume with a decidedly fifties flavor. She is THE BOWLER.
RAJA: Who are you?
BOWLER: I'm the Bowler.
SHOVELER: The Bowler? I remember him from when I was a kid. He was killed years ago.
BOWLER: I'm his daughter. Our heroes share a look.
SHOVELER: Look, honey, being a superhero. it's a guy thing.
BOWLER: She takes her bowling ball and spins it on the tip of her finger ( like a Harlem Globetrotter ). For a long moment she just looks at them, ON THE OTHERS watching, almost mesmerized by the spinning ball. Suddenly, she gives an ear splitting battle cry and starts swinging the ball around her in wide ferocious arcs, like a cannibal with a war clubor a twirler on meth, going so fast she almost becomes a blur. Then, just as suddenly, she stops, aims and rolls her ball. It shoots straight through Invisible Boy's legs.
BOWLER: Good ball. ON OUR HEROES, left absolutely speechless.
BOWLER: If it could zip up its own bag, then you'd be impressed, right? She turns and walks out. Our heroes share an amazed look, then run after her.
FURIOUS: Hey. Can I buy you a beer?
BOWLER: I thought you'd never ask. She takes his arm and they all start to walk back into the Shoveler's backyard. but the CAMERA PANS ACROSS THE STREET to the dark place between two houses, where a MAN WEARING A STRANGE STEEL MASK with a frightening, impassively powerful expression stands in the deep shadows, watching them in motionless, predatory silence. We do not know who he is, and we cannot tell if he is good or evil.
BOWLER: And then one day, he didn't come home. The police said it was an accident. But cargo containers don't just fall on people. He was murdered. After that I fell apart. I dropped out of school, became a mud wrestler, married and divorced a jerk. When my mother died I hit bottom. but then, when I was cleaning out her attic, I found my father's old bowling bag and costume, almost like he'd left them there for me. and I knew what I had to do.
SHOVELER: So who killed him?
BOWLER: The Disco Boys.
FURIOUS: You know something? Those guys are really starting TO PISS ME OFF!
SHOVELER: But there's still only six of us.
FURIOUS: SO WHAT? That's two more than the Fantastic Four.
SO WHAT?: That's two more than the Fantastic Four.
BOWLER: That's two more than the Fantastic Four.
FURIOUS: Half a Dirty Dozen!
SPLEEN: Twice the Three Stooges!
INVISIBLE BOY: And only one short of the Magnificent Seven.
RAJA: And you can't count Horst Buckholtz anyway.
BOWLER: He was cute though.
RAJA: But they all had one thing we haven't got.
SPLEEN: A name. All the great superhero teams have got a fabulous name. They all think about it for a moment. You can almost smell their brains overheating.
RAJA: A name. All the great superhero teams have got a fabulous name. They all think about it for a moment. You can almost smell their brains overheating.
BOWLER: How about. the Savage Six?
RAJA: The Inscrutable Six?
SPLEEN: The Six Pistols?
SHOVELER: The Exterminators!
INVISIBLE BOY: The Obliterators!
RAJA: The Eradicators!
BOWLER: The Emasculators!
SPLEEN: WaitI got it!. The Spleen Team. He gets beaned by a couple of empty soda cans.
FURIOUS: To hell with a name. Let's get to work. MUSIC UP as Furious stands and starts out. The others stand and follow him. as our heroes form up for their first HEROIC GROUP SHOT.
TONY P: Little old lady. That's a hundred points!
TONY P: He knows your every move. Tony P imitates a massive electrical convulsion, and the villains crack But as they pass the billboard, a pair of headlights illuminate in its shadows, and the Shoveler's Ford Esquire pulls out and follows.
FURIOUS: Let's say hello.
TONY P: Not these guys again! The Disco Boys howl with laughter.
CASANOVA: Nice car. The D Boys laugh. Furious stares at Casanova, and Casanova stares right back at him, as cool as a snake.
FURIOUS: What did you do with Captain Amazing?
CASANOVA: Captain who?
TONY P: ( spots the Bowler ) Hey, in the backseat, who are you supposed to be, the Bowler?
BOWLER: I'm his daughter.
TONY P: His daughter? Well guess what, sweetheart? I'm the one who squished your Daddy. And he squished real good! The villains laugh, and Mister Furious EXPLODES INTO RAGE. He swings open his car door, mashing it into the limo and leaving a big dent.
TONY P: 'SCUSE ME! He starts punching the limo like it's a punching bagputting big dents in it.
HEY!: 'SCUSE ME! He starts punching the limo like it's a punching bagputting big dents in it.
FURIOUS: 'SCUSE ME! He starts punching the limo like it's a punching bagputting big dents in it.
'SCUSE ME!: He starts punching the limo like it's a punching bagputting big dents in it.
TONY: Waste him! Tony and the boys all reach into their coats for their pistolsbut as they yank them out, the Spleen sticks his head out of the station wagon, puts his face right up to the open window of the limo and lets loose with a TREMENDOUS BELCH. As the villains choke and gag in the noxious fumes, Mister Furious goes on a DEMOLITION RAMPAGE, working his way around the limo, punching big dents with his fists, breaking the windows with his head, flattening the tires by kicking them, knocking off the rear view mirror with the back of his hand. Then he leaps up on top of the limo. While inside the villains gasp for air as big dents are stomped into the roof above them. ANGLE THROUGH THE WINDSHEILD as Furious leaps down onto the hood, and gazes in at them.
FURIOUS: Shall I check your oil? He plunges his hand through the metal of the hood, pulls out the car's dip stick, and checks it.
FURIOUS: Looks fine. He tosses the dip stick away, then leaps off JUST AS Tony P gets off a shot, EXPLODING the windshield of the limo. Furious lands safely on the hood of the station wagon. As the Shoveler throws the Esquire into gear, Furious shouts.
FURIOUS: NICE CAR! And our heroes streak off into the night. Casanova and the others stagger out of the demolished limo, sucking in the clean air.
NICE CAR!: And our heroes streak off into the night. Casanova and the others stagger out of the demolished limo, sucking in the clean air.
CASANOVA: ( impressed by Furious ) That boy's got talent.
TONY P: And I'm gonna nip it in the bud.
SHOVELER: To us!
RAJA: Whatever our name is. They toast and drink.
SHOVELER: Even his snores smell bad. Raja and Bowler sit at the bar, deep in it.
BOWLER: But she's your mother. You gotta tell her.
RAJA: I can't.
INVISIBLE BOY: Dad thinks all this superhero stuff is a stupid waste of time.
SHOVELER: But he plays golf, right?
INVISIBLE BOY: BACK ON RAJA AND BOWLER -
RAJA: I'm her only son, and she always had such high hopes for me. Medicine. Law.
BOWLER: But you're a superhero.
RAJA: The cape. The turban. She wouldn't I know. My girlfriends all dumped me after I put on the mask. They thought I'd lost it.
BOWLER: I know. My girlfriends all dumped me after I put on the mask. They thought I'd lost it.
RAJA: But in fact. you'd found it. They clink their glasses and drink.
SHOVELER: This is your dream. and you can't ever give it up. The Spleen makes weird noises in his sleep.
INVISIBLE BOY: I wonder what he dreams about?
SHOVELER: We don't want to know. Mr. Furious sits alone in the corner, brooding, lost in his own angry OUTSIDE THE BAR - CONTINUOUS A black van drives slowly past the bar.
TONY P: HIS POV - He has spotted the Ford Esquire parked in the lot.
BOWLER: It's late. I'm headin' home.
RAJA: Me, too.
BOWLER: ( to Invisible Boy ) Come on, Junior, it's a school night.
FURIOUS: Anybody up for a little White Castle? But suddenly the world is a whirling sass of chains and clubs as they are bushwhacked by the Disco Boys.
TONY P: Hi, cutie. Furious struggles, but he has been secured with some very heavy tire chains. Tony P takes out a large caliber revolver, flips it open to make sure it's loaded.
TONY P: Six losers. Six bullets. Perfect. Got any last words, Angry Boy?
FURIOUS: Disco sucks.
TONY P: Disco sucks. Very good. You know what I'm gonna do, Angry Boy, since you're so colorful? I'm gonna save you for last. He turns and points the pistol right at Invisible Boy's head. Furious struggles against his chainsto no avail.
TONY P: Sweet dreams, punk. Invisible Boy closes his eyes. Tony P cocks the pistol. But suddenly, there is the ring of steela broad blade sweeps through the air, and Tony P's pistol is sliced neatly in half.
TONY P: ( holding half a pistol )
TONY P: Get him! The Disco Boys rush the newcomer, but he slices through their baseball bats with his machete, and sends them reeling and crashing into each other with expert forearm blows, whacks with the flat of his blade, and head butts with his mask. Furious struggles to break free and join the fight, but the chains are too strong. and the stranger doesn't need any help. Tony P flicks open a big switchblade and lunges at the stranger, who sidesteps him like a matador and swings his machete at him. Tony P turns, about to charge again.
TONY P: Tony P feels the top of his head, and realizes that the blow from the machete has neatly sliced off the top his disco-do, leaving only stubble on the top of his head.
TONY P: ( freaking out )
FURIOUS: You're the Sphinx.
SPHINX: And you are a fool. He raises his machete above Furious' head. and then slices clean through the chains.
SPHINX: You call yourselves superheroes? A rooster fights more intelligently than you! You have shown yourself to your enemy and revealed your powers to himand what have you accouplished for this? You have destroyed his car. Brilliant! If you want to survive you must fight like a wolf packnot like a six pack! Furious sulks, but the others get the point.
SPHINX: The wolf is cunning. He knows that stealth is his greatest weapon, and he always fights as a Not like some drunken Tejano on Saturday night. Furious grunts.
SPHINX: Casanova Frankenstein is a a master of evil. You will need more than shovels and dessert forks to stop him. What else have you got? They are silent.
FURIOUS: ( angrily ) So what else has Superman got?
SHOVELER: He's got the fact that he's Superman!
BOWLER: Bullets bounce off him! Furious sulks again, feeling that the others are turning against him.
RAJA: Firepower costs money.
INVISIBLE BOY: Anybody got any? A silence.
SHOVELER: We didn't think this through very well.
BOWLER: ( after a moment ) My father had this friend. He was an inventor.
SHOVELER: Are you sure he's still lives here?
RAJA: Are you sure he's still alive?
BOWLER: He was the last time I saw him.
SHOVELER: When was that?
BOWLER: I was eight. She is about to knock, but the door is suddenly yanked open, and an eighty year old guy is standing there. He's got a wild head of white hair ( that looks like a living explosion ), and he wears a stained old lab coat with stickum mtssages to himself stuck to it, non-matching slippers, and a pair of thick glasses with frames that have been composited of half a dozen different old pairs all taped and welded together into a fantastic concoction. He is DOC HELLER.
HELLER: Doctor Heller?
BOWLER: Doctor Heller?
HELLER: ( doesn't recognize her ) It's me. Elizabeth.
BOWLER: It's me. Elizabeth.
HELLER: Elizabeth! Little Elizabeth! Why you're so. middle aged!
BOWLER: How's your dad?
HELLER: How's your dad?
BOWLER: He's dead.
HELLER: Oh that's rightthey squished him. Heck of a guy. Furious throws a look at the Shoveler and Raja. This guy's out of it. They're wasting their time.
BOWLER: Doc, these are my friends. We're superheroes, and we need your help.
HELLER: Well, I give to the United Way, and I feel that sort of covers
SPHINX: Doctor, we need your weapons.
HELLER: ( ecstatic ) My weapons? You need my weapons?
HELLER: The military establishment has never understood me. They won't return my phone calls, much less field test anything. But I knew that someday I'd get my chance, and now. here you
RAJA: But, Doc. where's the machine guns?
SHOVELER: The bazookas?
INVISIBLE BOY: The lasers?
HELLER: You don't need that junk! You see, for thousands of years mankind has been immolating, disemboweling, and exploding itself. Why? Because we have this built-in screwed up need to go to war! So as a young man I thought, why nat have the fun and excitement of war, without all that unnecessary bloodshed. That's why I have devoted my life to developing an arsenal of highly sophisticated non-lethal military Air cannons. Blame throwers. Feet seeking missiles. And perhaps my ultimate The canned tornado. Furious groans, and the others share a look. This guy's really a nut.
HELLER: Now here's a beauty! I call it the Shrinker! I developed it after years of studying the worst dry cleaners I could find. It instantly shrinks fabrics to half their size. Anyone caught in its spray is immediately immobilized by their own clothing!
FURIOUS: Let's get out of here. Furious turns and goes out, and the others start to follow. But the Bowler picks up a canned tornado.
BOWLER: Hey, Mister Bad Mood. Furious stops, turns back.
BOWLER: ( pulls the ring on the can ) She tosses the can to him. He catches itjust as a small angry tornado FUNNELS out of the can. It catches Furious and lifts him high in the air. then dissipates to nothing. A beat later Furious lands on the ground with a painful thump. ON THE OTHERS, amazed. Furious gets to his feet, unhurt, but really pissed off. He starts back toward the barn, violently kicking the empty can. The others get out of his way, as, muttering angrily to himself, he goes back into the And emerges a moment later, toting the air cannon.
HELLER: He's got the air cannon! The others think he's going to use it on them and scatter for cover. but Furious steps out into the yard, looking for a suitable target. He sees an old abandoned outhouse, puts the air cannon to his shoulder, aims, and fires. There is a loud WHOOOOMPH of compressed air, and the huge recoil of the cannon instantly flings Furious back against the wall of the barn. But the big rush of air hits the shed dead center. and BLOWS IT TO PIECES, leaving only the old seat. Furious gets up, dusts himself off, and moves to Doc Heller.
FURIOUS: Doc, you're a genius!
HELLER: I know.
FURIOUS: ( turns to the others ) Okay! We got the firepower! I say we throw it into the car, drive over to Casanova's house, and kick some ass!
SPHINX: The others ignore Furious and listen to the Sphinx.
SPHINX: We are not yet ready. Now we must learn to fight together. as one thing. The others nod in agreemnt. while Furious fumes.
RAJA: Twenty years ago all the major hoodlums of this city were united into one great brotherhood of evil, and Casanova was their king.
SHOVELER: Crime was rampant. It wasn't safe to stay in your home.
BOWLER: Much less go outside.
SHOVELER: Then Captain Amazing appeared.
RAJA: He busted Casanova and sent the crooks packing.
SHOVELER: And this has been a pretty nice place to live ever since.
FURIOUS: ( pissed off ) But now Casanova's back! And we're gonna sit around here all night eating pizza and telling stories! Hey, lets toast some marshmellows!
SPHINX: The wise snake coils before he strikes.
FURIOUS: ( lunges at the Sphinx ) And a skunk stinks! Furious and the Sphinx square off, their faces only inches apart.
SPHINX: You drink too much.
FURIOUS: When are you going to take off that mask?
SPHINX: ( pointedly ) When I am sure I am among friends.
RAJA: ( snapping at him ) Go dance with your mother, Jeffrey! ON THE RAJA, hurt.
FURIOUS: ( snapping at him ) Go dance with your mother, Jeffrey! ON THE RAJA, hurt.
SPHINX: Your rage is a very great power, but it blinds you to your heart.
FURIOUS: My heart died a long time ago.
SPHINX: It is not dead. It is hiding.
FURIOUS: Blow it out your bean hole, Pancho!. And to hell with the rest of you!. Look at you. Bunch of rejects. I didn't need you before and I don't need you now! The great ones RIDE ALONE! Adios, muchachos! ON THE OTHERS, watching him.
BOWLER: Has he always been like this?
MOTHER: ( to husband ) Oh this place looks great. An old sign reads "BAR" as the family car pulls into the parking lot of a single adobe building out in the middle of nowhere. They park.
MOTHER: Now honey, you just wait in the car. Mommy and Daddy will be right beck. They get out, lock the car and head for the bar, leaving the windows up. Little Furious watches them go, never suspecting that his entire life is about to change. He sits quietly in the backseat and plays with the little superhero figurines that he's brought with him.
LITTLE FURIOUS: Pow! Bang! Wham!
MOTHER: It's nice and cool in here.
FATHER: ( as they sit at the bar ) Barkeep, a couple of cold ones.
BARTENDER: And here's a banana for your monkey. Mom and Dad have a good laugh.
BARTENDER: Couple more?
FATHER: You bet. ANGLE FROM OUTSIDE TUE CAR as Little Furious, sweat and tears pouring out of him, his hair wet and sticking out ( and starting to take on that familiar look ), pounds on the window.
LITTLE FURIOUS: Mommy! Daddy! Mommy! Daddy! as back in the bar his parents, now very drunk, down more beers and chasers as they play a spirited game of pinball. ANGLE ON THE MOHAVE SUN - beating down mercilessly barely able to breath, Little Furious flops back onto the seat, his face a mask of heat and terror. But suddenly, a change begins to take place in him, as some primordial defense mechanism kicks in. and his fear begins to give way to rage. His teeth bare.
MOTHER: OH MY GOD! THE PARKING LOT - A BEAT LATER as she runs toward the car, hysterical.
MOTHER: Oh my God! Oh my God! Oh my God! She unlocks the door, throws it open, and sees something that makes her pull back in horror. Little Furious sits in the backseat. His hair sticks out wildly, his face has become that now familiar mask of prisordial rage. Another OLD DEAN MARTIN SONG is heard as we.
FURIOUS: Alone tonight?
MONICA: Alone tonight?
FURIOUS: Every night. She smiles.
SPLEEN: ( in a whisper ) Adolescence was the worstThe other kids made fun of me, so I'd spit on them and they'd scatterI've never had a girlfriendunless you count that night with my cousinShe recovered fully thoughWe exchange cards every ChristmasWell, I send her one, and she sends it back. ( spritzes somathing into his mouth, then offers it to Invisible Boy ) Bug repellent? Suddenly, the gates of the mansion open and several sedans. followed by a truck, drive out.
SPLEEN: ( runs after him ) As the small convoy drives past, Invisible Boy slips out from behind some trees, runs after the truck, jumps up and sits on its rear bumper. The Spleen comes running after him, and Invisible Boy reaches out, grabs his hand and pulls him up alongside him. Invisible Boy tries the rear gate. It's open. The two of them pull it up just a foot, squirm inside, then pull it closed behind them.
DAWN: .still no sign of millionaire Lance Hunt, and now, in an unrelated story, another one of Champion City's leading citizens has apparently disappeared. Captain Amazing has not been seen or heard from in a week. Authorities believe that the hard working superhero may just be taking a well deserved rest.
DON: Cancun perhaps?
DAWN: Sounds good to me, Don. Mr. Furious sits in the booth drinking coffee as Monica serves him his burger and fries.
FURIOUS: ( floundering ) Monica. I was wondering ifuh-maybe weI mean you and Icould-uhyou knowget aI mean have a.
MONICA: I get off work in fifteen minutes. Walk me That was easy. ON FURIOUS, feeling a whole lot better.
FURIOUS: I get off work in fifteen minutes. Walk me That was easy. ON FURIOUS, feeling a whole lot better.
MONICA: I get off work in fifteen minutes. Walk me That was easy. ON FURIOUS, feeling a whole lot better.
FURIOUS: That was easy. ON FURIOUS, feeling a whole lot better.
MONICA: That was easy. ON FURIOUS, feeling a whole lot better.
CASANOVA: Honey, our ship's come in. Casanova's cellular phone rings.
DISCO BOY: Just give me the word.
CASANOVA: ( gets an idea ) Wait. I'll be right there. ( hangs up, starts off )
ANABEL: ( peeved ) Where are you going?
CASANOVA: Head hunting. A minute later Casanova and two or three Disco Boys drive off in one of the sedans. as the crate is loaded onto the truck, and the gate is pulled closed. and locked.
MONICA: I admire you.
FURIOUS: Being a superhero, wanting to save the world. It's so. unselfish.
MONICA: Being a superhero, wanting to save the world. It's so. unselfish.
FURIOUS: It is?
MONICA: Most people just want to make money or be famous or something. But you risk everything, just to help people.
FURIOUS: ( after a moment ) I wouldn't mind being famous.
MONICA: Who wouldn't? In the shadows behind them. Casanova follows, stalking them, as silent as a vampire.
MONICA: I've never been able to figure out what to do with my life, which is why I guess I'm still a Nothing wrong with being a waitress.
FURIOUS: Nothing wrong with being a waitress.
MONICA: What's your real name?
FURIOUS: Have you always lived here? He nods.
MONICA: Have you always lived here? He nods.
MONICA: Me too. I love this stupid old town. It's noisy. It's smelly. It's falling apart.
FURIOUS: It's home.
MONICA: CASANOVA'S POV Monica, smiling, looking lovely. CLOSE 0N CASANOVA; he wants her.
CASANOVA'S POV: Monica, smiling, looking lovely. CLOSE 0N CASANOVA; he wants her.
MONICA: I've thought of leaving, going to Chicago or New York, but.
FURIOUS: What have they got that we ain't got?
MONICA: Champion's going to bounce back, and I want to be here when it does.
FURIOUS: Me, too.
MONICA: You don't seem very angry right now. He shrugs. And they kiss, very tenderly.
MONICA: You know what? Underneath all that anger I think there's just a little boy who wants everyone to love him.
FURIOUS: I just want to be a superhero.
MONICA: That's what I mean. 'Night, Roy. She turns and climbs the stairs of an old apartmnt building and goes inside, as Furious watches, feeling emotions hees not used to. He really likes her. He starts walking back down the street, past a man sitting on the stoop. The man looks up. It's Casanova Frankenstein.
CASANOVA: Going my way? Furious is caught completely by surprisehe takes a stand, ready to Take it easytake it easy. I just want to have a little chat. That was quite a number you did on my car. You've got a lot of violence in you. and I like that in a guy. Furious, silent.
CASANOVA: Take it easytake it easy. I just want to have a little chat. That was quite a number you did on my car. You've got a lot of violence in you. and I like that in a guy. Furious, silent.
CASANOVA: You know what the difference is between good and evil, Roy? Furious reacts to the fact that Casanova knows his real name.
CASANOVA: Evil is more fun. When you want something, you just take it, and if somebody gets in your way, you kill them. You seem like a very frustrated guy, Roy. Unhappy. Unfulfilled. What is it that you've always wanted, always desired? Because whatever it is, I can give it to you. Fame? Easy. Fortune? Even easier. Women? The easiest of all. CLOSE ON FURIOUS as, out of the corner of his eye, he catches movement in the alley across the street. he knows what it is.
CASANOVA: I'll let you in on a little secret, Roy. In two days this entire city will belong to me, and there's not a damn thing your little pals can do about it. It's the perfect time to switch teams. So what do you say?
FURIOUS: ( quietly ) You're nuts.
CASANOVA: ( flairs ) They always call the great ones nuts.
FURIOUS: And the nuts always call themselves great.
CASANOVA: ( his psychosis showing ) Are you with me. or against me?
FURIOUS: Too bad. PLUG HIM! Gunfire rings out from the alley as the Disco Bays step out, their pistols blazing. But Furious has anticipated them. He leaps right at Casanova, pins his arms in a bear hug and holds him in the line of The Disco BQys stop firing. Furious drags Casanova back into an empty lot, using him as a shield.
CASANOVA: Too bad. PLUG HIM! Gunfire rings out from the alley as the Disco Bays step out, their pistols blazing. But Furious has anticipated them. He leaps right at Casanova, pins his arms in a bear hug and holds him in the line of The Disco BQys stop firing. Furious drags Casanova back into an empty lot, using him as a shield.
CASANOVA: The Disco BQys stop firing. Furious drags Casanova back into an empty lot, using him as a shield.
WAIT!: The Disco BQys stop firing. Furious drags Casanova back into an empty lot, using him as a shield.
FURIOUS: ( to Casanova ) Thanks for reminding me which team I'm on.
CASANOVA: You're dead.
FURIOUS: So are you! Furious releases Casanova, then runs for it and leaps over the wooden wall at the end of the lot. as the Disco Boys open fire again, and their bullets punch holes through the wall. Furious runs down a back street and escapes into the night.
ANABEL: Be careful with my baby. There are two lumps under the packing blankets again.
GUARD 1: GUARD 2 Hands up! They freeze, their hands held high.
GUARD 2: Hands up! They freeze, their hands held high.
GUARD 2: What are you two doing here? Our heroes are mute.
GUARD 1: Not talking, eh? That can be fixed. Turn around, start walking up the hill
GUARD 2: And no funny business. Invisible Boy and the Spleen turn, hands in the air, and start up the hill, the guards right behind them.
SPLEEN: ( after a moment, to Invisible Pinch 'em. Invisible Boy pinches his nostrilsand the Spleen lets out with a horrendous fart. The guards gag and choke violently in the fumes as our heroes turn and run for it. escaping out the gates.
INVISIBLE BOY: Whatever was in that crate. is from Russia. The others consider this, then hear a familiar voice.
FURIOUS: I was wrong. I need my friends. Sphinx takes off his mask, revealing that he is the busboy from the Tacky Taco.
SPHINX: They embrace. A few mimutes later. The others are gathered around Furious, listening to his story.
FURIOUS: Casanova said that in two days the entire city would belong to him. and there wasn't a thing that we could do about it.
BOWLER: What did he mean?
FURIOUS: I dunno. Through the window the moon is seen rising over the hillside, the Frankenstein Center silhouetted ominously against it. Raja, Shoveler, and Furious gaze at it.
SHOVELER: Maybe it's time we checked that place out.
RAJA: But how do we get in?
FURIOUS: ( after a moment, sounding very Sphinx-like ) We just become like the wolf. who wears the sheep's clothing.
RAJA: So where's the art?
FURIOUS: He hasn't stolen it yet.
SHOVELER: This place is built like a fortress.
FURIOUS: Because thats what it is. They hear a WILD BURST OF DRUNKEN LAUGHTER echoing through the hall.
RAJA: What's that?
FURIOUS: ( following the sound ) Come on. They approach a doorway. The noise is coming from within.
RAJA: ( stunned ) Oh my God. Every crook in the city is here.
CASANOVA: Excuse me. She stops, turns to him, while our heroes listen in, only a few feet Monica. Beautiful name. It suits you. CLOSE ON FURIOUS, getting jealous.
CASANOVA: ( reading her name tag ) Monica. Beautiful name. It suits you. CLOSE ON FURIOUS, getting jealous.
CASANOVA: I hope you won't take this the wrong way, but I couldn't help but notice. that you're a dead ringer for Veronica Lake in "The Blue Dahlia".
MONICA: Furious growls. Raja gives him an elbow.
CASANOVA: Are you an actress?
MONICA: Just a waitress.
CASANOVA: You underestimate yourself. Mister Furious is fuming. The strands of his perfectly coiffed disco- do start to stand straight up.
CASANOVA: You know I'm writing a playit's just a little Broadway thing, but thure's a part in it that I think you'd be perfect for.
MONICA: I'd love to hear you read it. Could you stick around after the luncheon?
CASANOVA: I'd love to hear you read it. Could you stick around after the luncheon?
MONICA: SureI guess.
CASANOVA: She turns and walks into the kitchen. CLOSE ON CASANOVA, watching her; his intentions are sinister. He turns and sees. our heroes, hanging by the wall.
CASANOVA: What are you three doing here? This is invited guests only. Out. Our heroes skulk out.
RAJA: That was too close.
SHOVELER: But we gotta find out what's going on in there.
FURIOUS: Furious has spotted. a large covered dessert table, waiting to be wheeled into the hall.
FURIOUS: It's me. She calms down, and he takes his hand off her mouth.
MONICA: What are you guys doing here?
CASANOVA: Thank you all for coming. I hope you enjoy the cigars. I had to kill a dozen Cubans to get Tony P chuckles loudly, but the joke goes over like a lead balloon with the rest of the crowd.
CASANOVA: Twenty years ago, this town was yours! AND I
CASANOVA: ( tragically ) But they called me a psycho, and they put me away. For twenty years I rotted in my cell, painting watercolors, writing haikusjust waiting for the day I could take my revenge. Well, brothers, that day has come! ON OUR HEROES under the table, listening. Monica begins to realize what's going on.
CASANOVA: They thought I was crazy? Well the joke's on thembecause tonight at precisely midnighton the twentieth anniversary of my tragic arrest every man, woman, and child in this city is going to turn into a RAVING PSYCSOTIC! Mothers will murder their tots! Old ladies will strangle their cats! Children will bump off their babysitters! The guests think Casanova's completely lost it. Italian Ice speaks up.
ITALIAN ICE: You're outta your mind!
CASANOVA: I beg your pardon?
ITALIAN ICE: Nobody could drive a whole city crazy.
CASANOVA: Tell you what, Ice. I'll mke you a friendly little wager. It I can't do it. you can blow my brains out. If I can, I'll blow out yours. Now the hoods' interest has been perked.
ITALIAN ICE: ( to Anabel, with a smile ) Honey, give the boys a taste. Anabel puts on a pair of heavy duty sound deadening ear protectors, then presses a button on a small remote control device. ANGLE ON A SPEAKER, placed above the podium. as the air is suddenly filled with a weird, stridulating, HORRIFIC NOISE ( somewhere between the sound of a fire siren and a hornet trapped in your ear ) and everyone in the room ( except Anabel ) goes COMPLETELY BERSERK. CAMERA PANS the tables as the guests laugh dementedly, punching, gouging, strangling, and stabbing each other. Under the serving table our heroes go crazy. Casanova, in a state of psychotic ecstasy, whips out his pistol and empties it into Italian Ice. who drops to the floor, dead. Anabel presses the button again; the sound winds down and stops, and everything returns to normal. The entire event lasted only a few seconds, but the guests are dazzled.
CASANOVA: ( to Anabel, with a smile ) Honey, give the boys a taste. Anabel puts on a pair of heavy duty sound deadening ear protectors, then presses a button on a small remote control device. ANGLE ON A SPEAKER, placed above the podium. as the air is suddenly filled with a weird, stridulating, HORRIFIC NOISE ( somewhere between the sound of a fire siren and a hornet trapped in your ear ) and everyone in the room ( except Anabel ) goes COMPLETELY BERSERK. CAMERA PANS the tables as the guests laugh dementedly, punching, gouging, strangling, and stabbing each other. Under the serving table our heroes go crazy. Casanova, in a state of psychotic ecstasy, whips out his pistol and empties it into Italian Ice. who drops to the floor, dead. Anabel presses the button again; the sound winds down and stops, and everything returns to normal. The entire event lasted only a few seconds, but the guests are dazzled.
CROOKS: That was great!. What the hell was that?. How did you do that? Casanova throws Anabel a kiss.
CASANOVA: Tonight, at midnight, that sound will be amplified across this entire city. Murder and mayhem will reign supreme! And Champion City will be ours again! This will be our castle! And I will be our king! And there's no one to stop us! Suddenly, a familiar voice is heard.
CASANOVA: Don't worry, fellas. puts his arm chummily around him ) I killed him. and I've had him stuffed. Casaova reaches behind Captain Amazing's back and pulls a string ( like the ones they used to have on those old talking dolls ).
AMAZING: ( in a canned voice ) Isn't my butt cute in these tights? Blue is my color. Oh, my abs are killing me! The crooks are beside themselves with laughter. ON OUR HEROES, under the table, stunned.
MONICA: What could have made such a horrible noise?
HELLER: ( after a moment, gravely ) He's got the Psychostridulator.
ALL: The what?
HELLER: Ten years ago the Kremlin's top secret Psychiatric Warfare Division developed a prototype for a weapon that emitted a fluctuating alternative frequency noise that produced a violent psychotic reaction in any mammal within hearing distance. But when the old Soviet Union fell the stridulator and its brilliant inventor, Doctor Kopov, disappeared.
SHOVELER: This Kopov, what happened to him?
HELLER: Not him. her. They react to that piece of news, and then the Bowler opens up the Did she look like that? CLOSE ON A PHOTO of Anabel and Casanova, announcing their wedding Silence; this is bad.
BOWLER: Did she look like that? CLOSE ON A PHOTO of Anabel and Casanova, announcing their wedding Silence; this is bad.
HELLER: Silence; this is bad.
SPLEEN: ( hopefully ) Maybe it won't work.
FURIOUS: It works.
HELLER: A village in Siberia was wiped out when a cleaning woman switched it on by mistake. Another grim silence, as they realize how desperate the situation is. For the first time, they're really scared.
MONICA: We've got to warn the city.
SHOVELER: No one will believe us.
RAJA: No one will believe us.
BOWLER: They'll think we're just a bunch of weirdoes. CAMERA CUTS BETWEEN THEM as they look at each othertheir frightened faces, their sad, faded costuznes. Even the Sphinx looks scared.
FURIOUS: ( after a moment, grimly ) We know what we gotta do. They look at him.
RAJA: We're outnumbered twenty to one.
SHOVELER: It's suicide.
FURIOUS: Maybe. But this isn't about living or dying. It's about good versus evil, and we're good, whether we like it or not. Maybe we look a little funny.
FURIOUS: And smell a little funny. We're not bulletproof and we can't fly. But we're superheroesand that means doing what's right- -even when it's impossible. This is our city- -these are our friends, our famliesand if we don't save them, nobody will! So I say we take a ride up that hill, blast our way in there, destroy that Psycho-whatchamabob and teach those deviants a lesson they'll never forget!
SPHINX: Now you're talking.
BOWLER: Sounds good to me.
RAJA: Let's do it.
SHOVELER: And we'll take a bunch of 'em with us! They're all with him. Monica steps forward.
MONICA: I just want you guys to knowI may not be a superhero, but I'm with youand I want to Oh that's great. Thanks, Monica. ( Etc. )
ALL: Oh that's great. Thanks, Monica. ( Etc. )
BOWLER: We could really use some coffee
SHOVELER: And some sandwiches
SPLEEN: With mustard!
MONICA: ( her feelings a little hurt ) A few minutes later, Monica serves sandwiches and coffee as our heroes But that place is huge and we don't know where this psycho thing is
RAJA: But that place is huge and we don't know where this psycho thing is
BOWLER: Or even what it looks like.
HELLER: And he must have it well hidden.
FURIOUS: We'll just have to get lucky. ON MONICA as she gets an idea. A moment later she slips a canned tornado into her purse. as the others put their arms around each other in a group huddle\embrace.
FURIOUS: Go do what you gotta do. We'll meet back here at sunset. Do or die.
ALL: Do or die.
SPHINX: Victoria o morte. HEROIC MUSIC as.
SALLY: EXT. HELLER'S FARM - DAY ON THE SPHINX, standing as immobile and silent as a statue. as a falling leaf slowly flutters down in front of him. In a flash, his machete slices through the air, and the leaf continues fluttering down, but in two pieces.
HEY!: EXT. HELLER'S FARM - DAY ON THE SPHINX, standing as immobile and silent as a statue. as a falling leaf slowly flutters down in front of him. In a flash, his machete slices through the air, and the leaf continues fluttering down, but in two pieces.
SHOVELER: Baby, if I don't make it. find yourself. a normal guy.
LUCILLE: I don't want a normal guy. And they kiss. A few minutes later. In the living room the Shoveler's kids lie sprawled in front of the television. The Shoveler, in battle array, steps into the room. Be wants to say something to them, but the kids don't even take their eyes off the TV look at him. He turns and walks out in silence.
MOTHER: Jeffrey, YOU THIEF!
RAJA: Mother. it's not what you think!
MOTHER: And why are you wearing that silly costume?
RAJA: ( painfully ) Because. I'M A SUPERHERO! ON HIS MOTHER, shocked.
RAJA: Oh, Mother, I'm sorry. I know how much you wanted me to be a doctor or a lawyer with a familybut it's just not who I am!
MOTHER: But. the silverware?
RAJA: I use it. to fight evil.
MOTHER: ( after a moment ) Jeffrey. this is wonderful.
RAJA: ( stunned ) It is?
MOTHER: I always knew that you were special.
RAJA: You did?
MOTHER: Ever since you were a little boy. Come with me.
MOTHER: This is for you. The Raja opens the box and registers astonisha~nt as he sees. A FABULOUS VICTORIAN SILVER SET packed with formidable looking servers, cake knives, ice cream forks.
MOTHER: Your Great Great Grandmother's wedding silver. The Raja lifts up and handles a large heavily engraved pie server.
RAJA: EXT. OUTSIDE HELLER'S BARN/LAB - EVENING - CLOSE ON Mister Furious, wrench in hand, covered with grease and oil, cussing to himself as he works under the hood of the Herkimer.
FURIOUS: Try it again! Invisible Boy, sitting behind the wheel, tries the ignition of the Herkimer, and the old engine grinds as it turns over, but doesn't Come on, baby. Come on, baby. I SAID COME
FURIOUS: Come on, baby. Come on, baby. I SAID COME
ON!: Mister Furious SLUGS the engine with his fist, and it sputters and backfires into life. shaking, rattling, leaking, exploding, but running. Furious kisses the Herkimer. as the Bowler calls out to him from the barn.
BOWLER: Mon Capitan, it's for you.
FURIOUS: EXT. UNKNOWN LOCATION - EVENING - CLOSE ON MONICA
MONICA: ( on a phone, speaking very softly ) It's me.
FURIOUS: Monica, where are you?
MONICA: At the Frankenstein Center.
FURIOUS: Are you nuts? Get out of there!
MONICA: I'm going inside.
FURIOUS: What are you talking about?
MONICA: Listen, Casanova may be a supervillain, but he's got a weakness, and I'm it. Maybejust maybeI can trick him into showing me the location of the whatchamathing.
FURIOUS: He's a psycho! He'll kill you!
MONICA: Just shut up and listen. Hold off the attack as long as you can. If I can discover the location I'll call you
FURIOUS: And what if you get killed?
MONICA: Then at least I will have died trying, right? Furious silent, taken aback by her courage.
MONICA: Roy. We might never see each other again, so I'd better tell you now. I think you're
FURIOUS: ( caught completely off guard )
MONICA: ( and she hangs up )
FURIOUS: INT. LOBBY OF THE FRANKENSTEIN CENTER - CONTINUOUS as Monica approaches a GUARD standing by the main door.
MONICA: Could you tell Mr. Frankenstein that Monica is Sure, doll.
GUARD: Sure, doll.
BOWLER: ( worried about him ) Hey. you okay?
FURIOUS: BACK TO THE FRANKENSTEIN CENTER - A FEW MINUTES LATER Casanova steps out and sees. Monica, looking very sexy.
MONICA: I thought you'd chickened out on me.
CASANOVA: I thought you'd chickened out on me.
MONICA: Just wanted to. powder my nose. His eyes roam all over her; he knows she's up to something, but she looks yummy, and this is just the sort of cat and mouse game he loves.
MONICA: How 'bout giving me "the tour"?
CASANOVA: Why not?
CASANOVA: Big, isn't it? He leads her to a massive archway, the only apparent entrance to the tower. But just as she is about to pass through, Monica looks up and sees something that makes her pull back with fear.
CASANOVA: Don't worry. It's not activated. They pass through and into.
MONICA: Who's the artist?
CASANOVA: EXT. THE BARN/LAB - NIGHT The Bowler, Spleen, Invisible Boy, and Doc Heller load up the Herkimer with Heller's weaponry. as Mister Furious lies sprawled on the hillside. breathing in the night air, contemplating a dandelion gone to seed, and listening to the sounds of the night. The Raja, Shoveler, and Sphinx, stand nearby, watching, trying to figure out what's wrong with him. A whippoorwill is heard singing.
FURIOUS: Listen. He's lonely. and he doesn't care who knows it. Raja and Shoveler share a bewildered look. The bird sings again.
FURIOUS: We're all the same really. Our songs, our dreams, our seeds are all just a brave attempt to live forever.
SPHINX: He is in love. His anger is gone.
RAJA: Oh no.
SHOVELER: Great timing!
FURIOUS: Has Monica called?
CASANOVA: This is where I come to. be alone. He turns down the lights and quietly closes and locks the big door to the room. CLOSE ON MONICA, sensing her danger.
MONICA: Oh, look at that view. She moves out onto the balcony. as Casanova slips the gold chain from around his neck and follows her.
HELLER: Snap out of it!
BOWLER: Get on to yourself!
SHOVELER: ( shouting right in his face )
GET MAD!: But I just don't feel it.
FURIOUS: But I just don't feel it.
RAJA: He's turned into a completely normal person!
FURIOUS: Normal. What's normal? Does normal exist? And if it did, how would we know it? The Shoveler slugs him, sending him sprawling.
FURIOUS: You know, Eddie, that was really uncalled for.
MONICA: I'm chilly. She turns, elegantly avoiding him, and moving back inside.
SPLEEN: Look! Your favorite sunglasses!
BOWLER: Your Roy Rogers coffee mug!
SHOVELER: Your Spiderman Pez dispenser!
FURIOUS: Okay, you win. I'm pissed off. I'm seriously The others groan with frustration.
CASANOVA: Come here.
MONICA: I'm not that kind of girl.
CASANOVA: Then why are you here?
MONICA: ( with a smile ) Remember the cat. Suddenly, he hears high heels in the hall. A key is put in the lock Casanova leaps off the bed, grabs Monica and roughly shoves her into the closet. He leaps back onto the bed, just as the door opens, and Anabel, dressed in a lab coat ( and wearing high heels ) enters. Casanova is completely relaxed, nonchalant.
CASANOVA: ( with a smile ) Remember the cat. Suddenly, he hears high heels in the hall. A key is put in the lock Casanova leaps off the bed, grabs Monica and roughly shoves her into the closet. He leaps back onto the bed, just as the door opens, and Anabel, dressed in a lab coat ( and wearing high heels ) enters. Casanova is completely relaxed, nonchalant.
ANABEL: What are you doing all alone in the dark?
CASANOVA: Fantasizing. about you. She crosses the room to the wolf sculpture.
CASANOVA: I thought you were done?
ANABEL: One last tweak. She opens a secret panel on its back, REVEALNG a FLASHING HIGH TECH INTERIOR. and Monica, watching from the closet, realizes that she has found the Psychostridulator.
RAJA: If this doesn't do it, nothing will! ON FURIOUS, a pair of headphones on his head. The music is so loud that we can hear it even though it's being played only through the ON THE OTHERS, gathered around him, waiting to see if this will work. And then Furious begins to respond. as his face turns into a contorted grimace.
BOWLER: It's working! Furious groans and writhes. The others are thrilled; they've done it!
FURIOUS: This music is just SO BEAUTIFUL! He starts to weep. The others give a collective groan of defeat.
SHOVELER: It's time.
RAJA: With or without him, we gotta go!
ANABEL: Our guests are waiting.
CASANOVA: I'll be down in a jiffy. She goes out. Casanova listens as the sound of high heels fades away, then he goes to the closet and lets Monica out.
MONICA: I'd better go.
CASANOVA: You're a spy.
MONICA: ( offguard ) I saw him walk you home.
CASANOVA: I saw him walk you home.
MONICA: She makes a sudden try for the door, but he blocks her way, a cold look in his eye that makes her step back in fear.
CASANOVA: She makes a sudden try for the door, but he blocks her way, a cold look in his eye that makes her step back in fear.
CASANOVA: Don't be afraid. I never hit a lady. He lets the gold chain drop loose in his hand, then starts coming for her, a sadistic grin on his face. This is the real Casanova. Monica pulls back, then reaches into her purse and takes out A CANNED TORNADO, which she holds out threateningly.
MONICA: Stay away!
CASANOVA: Or you'll what? CAN ME? He laughs dementedly as Monica pops open the can and A SWIRLING FUNNEL OF AIR SHOOTS OUT OF IT and ENGULFS Casanova, throwing him across the room. Monica grabs the handset of a cordless phone and runs out the ON CASANOVA, pulling himself together.
CASANOVA: That bitch!
FURIOUS: But she still might call!
SHOVELER: Are you coming or not?
FURIOUS: I'll drive.
SHOVELER: Not a chance! He shoves him in the back, closing the heavy steel door behind him.
MONICA: Come on, guys. Pick up. Suddenly, we hear Casanova's voice on the line.
CASANOVA'S VOICE: What's the matter.
CASANOVA: Nobody home?
SHOVELER: Here we go! He forces the stick into gear and the Herkimer lurches forward.
SHOVELER: We've got lift off!
RAJA: May the forks be with us!
RAJA: First is good.
CASANOVA: I want her alive.
GUARDS: Yes, Mr. Frankenstein. CAMERA PANS UP the top of a staircase. where Monica is crouched, EXT. STREETS OF CHAMPION CITY - NIGHT VARIOUS SHOTS as the Herkimer rumbles and smokes down Champion's main street ( in first gear ) and the citizens step out of houses and bars to watch this bizarre sight.
LITTLE BOY: Daddy, what is that thing?
FATHER: I don't know, son. A couple of GRIZZLED CHARACTERS stand in front of a bar.
DRUNK: A Herkimer? Those yuppies will drive anything.
SPHINX: Amigo, we need you.
INVISIBLE BOY: Just GET MAD! Furious closes his eyes and tries, but it's hopeless.
CASANOVA: Fellas, this is woman without whom I would have gone sane.
GUARD 1: What the hell is that?
GUARD 2: Looks like. a Ford Dumpster. They have a good laugh at it, then hold up their hands for it to stop. But the Herkimer just rolls past them, hitting the iron gates and snapping them open as if they were made of match sticks.
GUARDS: They open fire.
HEY!: They open fire.
SHOVELER: Hang on!
CASANOVA: It's showtime. But then they all hear. the sound of gunfire.
TONY P: What's that?
GUARD: Mr. Frankenstein, we're being attacked.
CASANOVA: By whom?
TONY P: They'll never get through those doors.
SHOVELER: Come on, baby!
BOWLER: Do it, big boy! ON ITS WHEELS, grinding, chewing up the concrete.
SHOVELER: Atta, girl!
BOWLER: Atta, boy!
CASANOVA: Well kill them.
SHOVELER: Where am I going?
RAJA: ( pointing to an archway on the Through there!
SHOVELER: But suddenly something under the hood blows up; the engine gives a long groan, and the Herkimer rolls to a dead stop.
SHOVELER: No good! She's dead! ON CASANOVA AND THE CROOKS, watching the monitor and laughing as bullets pulverize the Herk.
TONY P: Spam in a can! The crooks laugh. Butsuddenly, the Herkimer's door is thrown open, revealing our heroes holding down Doc Heller, his air cannon at the ready. He firesthere is a WHOOMPH of airand the mounted gun and a dozen guards are sent SECURITY DESK - CONTINUOUS - ON CASANOVA AND THE OTHERS watching, sobered.
FURIOUS: Cover me!
SHOVELER: With what? Bullets dancing all around him, Furious runs a desperate ( but impressive ) zig-zag pattern across the floor. He performs a wild somersault, comes up on his feet, pops open the can, and executes a perfect jump shot, lobbing it right into the balcony. The tornado funnels out, and the guards are sent flying. ON CASANOVA AND THE TOP CROOKS watching.
RAJA: Not bad for a normal guy!
SPHINX: Do or die!
ALL: Do or die!
HELLER: Wait! Look! He points to. a man shaped pile of charcoal, all that remains of the unfortunate guard.
HELLER: Laser eye. and it's a humdinger.
RAJA: No problem. The Raja takes out a butter knife, aims, and hurls it straight at the eye, but laser beams intercept the knife and instantly melt it into. a formless blob of silver.
TONY P: We'll take care of these clowns.
SHOVELER: Doc, there's got to be a way. But the Doc is stymied. Suddenly they hear a woman's voice calling down to them.
MONICA'S VOICE: It's up here! It's up here!
FURIOUS: ( looks up ) EXT. TOP OF THE FRANKENSTEIN TOWER - CONTINUOUS Monica leans over the edge of the balcony, the wolf sculpture looming over her, shouting down at them.
MONICA: ROY! THE PSYCHO THING IS! But strong hands suddenly grab her. It's Casanova.
CASANOVA: Thanks, Roy! She's just my type. You can have her back. when I'm done!
HELLER: He'll never make it.
BOWLER: Think positive. Meanwhile, Invisible Boy stands staring at the security eye, a look of fierce determination on his face. This is his moment.
INVISIBLE BOY: ( to himself ) I can do it. He takes a deep breath, closes his eyes, and concentrates. ON FURIOUS as the fingers of one hand lose their grip and a toehold gives way. For a desperate moment, Furious is dangling off the wall by the tips of the fingers of one hand. Only his incredible rage keeps his fingertips taut. Suddenly, there is a flash of silver, and a large cake fork embeds in the concrete not far from his head. Furious grabs hold of it, and throws a grateful look down to the Raja. Who salaams up at him. As Invisible Boy, eyes closed in concentration, walks very slowly, hands at his sides, in an almost Egyptian pose. toward the eye. which stares down mercilessly, waiting for its next victim. we notice that Invisible Boy has become. just slightly transparent.
CASANOVA: ( admiring her ) Some girls just know how to die. Suddenly, we hear someone cursing Casanova in Russian. He turns and sees. Anabel standing there, pistol in hand.
ANABEL: You two timing psychotic bastard.
CASANOVA: Darling, you've got the wrong idea.
ANABEL: ( aiming at his heart ) Do I?
CASANOVA: I was only strangling her. I've killed hundreds of women. It doesn't mean a thing. Pootchkie, you're over-reacting. This is our night. It's what we've lied for. cheated for. murdered for. She's just a plaything, a trifle. You're the only woman who's ever meant anything to me. I adore you. I worship you. I want to make you my bride. She succumbs to his charms, and he gently takes the pistol out of her There's just one thing. I don't need you anymore. A look of terror comes across her face as she sees the murder in his Don't worry, Darling. I never hit a lady.
CASANOVA: There's just one thing. I don't need you anymore. A look of terror comes across her face as she sees the murder in his Don't worry, Darling. I never hit a lady.
CASANOVA: Don't worry, Darling. I never hit a lady.
BOWLER: Heads up! CAMERA HOLDS ON OUR HEROES, wincing as Anabel hits with an ugly thud. Suddenly they hear Invisible Boy calling to them.
INVISIBLE BOY: Guys, I did it! I did it! I'm invisible! They all turn and see. Invisible Boy, totally visible, but standing on the other side of the arch.
INVISIBLE BOY: Can you see me?
ALL: INVISIBLE BOY Kid, turn that thing off! Invisible Boy turns and sees. a computer screen built into the wall ( with the same image of the eye on it that was on Casanova's computer ), but he doesn't have a clue how to turn it off. Suddenly, he hears running feet, turns and sees. The top crooks and the Disco Boys rushing towards him through the giant sculptures. He gets an idea. and stands right in front of the computer screen.
INVISIBLE BOY: Kid, turn that thing off! Invisible Boy turns and sees. a computer screen built into the wall ( with the same image of the eye on it that was on Casanova's computer ), but he doesn't have a clue how to turn it off. Suddenly, he hears running feet, turns and sees. The top crooks and the Disco Boys rushing towards him through the giant sculptures. He gets an idea. and stands right in front of the computer screen.
SHOVELER: Kid, turn that thing off! Invisible Boy turns and sees. a computer screen built into the wall ( with the same image of the eye on it that was on Casanova's computer ), but he doesn't have a clue how to turn it off. Suddenly, he hears running feet, turns and sees. The top crooks and the Disco Boys rushing towards him through the giant sculptures. He gets an idea. and stands right in front of the computer screen.
INVISIBLE BOY: HEY! CREEPS! He makes a face at themand a dozen guns are instantly fired at him. He jumps clear behind a pillaras the bullets smash into the wall. one of them demolishing the computer screen.
HEY! CREEPS!: He makes a face at themand a dozen guns are instantly fired at him. He jumps clear behind a pillaras the bullets smash into the wall. one of them demolishing the computer screen.
SHOVELER: This is it! DO OR DIE! The villains form a line, bristling with pistols. as our heroes, led by Sphinx, Shoveler, and Bowler come running through the arch. The threesome go shoulder to shoulder ( with our other heroes right behind them ) as the villains open fire, laying down a deadly fusillade. ON SHOVELER, BOWLER, AND SPHINX, standing together, deflecting their bullets with shovel, bowling ball, and machete. ( as they practiced with pebbles at the farm ). with the Raja right behind them, hurling ON THE VILLAINS, rapid firing. but their own bullets ricochet back into them, dropping them. They start to fall back.
CASANOVA: And the light goes out.
CASANOVA: Roy. What took you so long? Furious starts at Casanova, who aims Anabel's pistol at him. Furious Let me guess. Bullets don't hurt you.
CASANOVA: Let me guess. Bullets don't hurt you.
FURIOUS: They hurt. BUT THEY DON'T STOP ME! Furious lunges at Casanovawho gets off a shot before Furious grabs the gun out of his hand. Casanova ducks clear. Furious tosses the pistol away. then realizes he's bleeding from a shoulder wound.
CASANOVA: Smarts, doesn't it?. Shall we dance? He turns on his stereo and the sound of DISCO MUSIC fills the air.
TONY P: Let's rush 'em! They charge en mass at our heroes. who are waiting for them. pinching their noses closed, the Spleen bent over at their forefront. While Casanova dances around Furious like a cat. Furious, fighting the pain of his bullet wound, lunges at him, and Casanova neatly sidesteps him. The crooks and Disco Boys fall back, gasping, choking in the noxious As Casanova attacks. Advancing shoulder to shoulder, fighting as a team, our heroes wield machete, fork, shovel, bowling ball, and canned tornado. forcing the villains back. Casanova comes at Furious relentlessly, kicking and spinning. and Furious gets the worst of it. Suddenly, a squad of Disco Boys comes charging at our heroes from the flank. but Doc Heller turns to face them, shrinker spray held Rambo- style on his hip. He lets them have it, blasting them with a DENSE
DISCO BOYS: Help!. Get me out of this! Upstairs, Casanova pummels Furious. While, downstairs, the Shoveler dispatches the Elvis Brothers with some nifty shovel work. But suddenly, the Bland Boys, pistols blazing, are advancing on him, forcing him back against the base of a sculpture. But the Raja suddenly leaps up onto the sculpture.
CASANOVA: Roy, you're making this too easy. As Tony P takes a careful bead on the Bowler.
TONY P: Say hello to Daddy for me! He opens fire, but she goes instantly into her ball svinging frenzy. He fires, missingshe's too fast to keep a bead on. Finally, his gun clicks empty. She turns and faces him.
BOWLER: ( grimly ) Daddy says hello. She HURLS the ball at himlike a fiery softball pitch.
CASANOVA: Let's change the tune. He reaches into his pocket and takes out the remote device ( that Anabel used at the luncheon ). He presses a button. ON THE WOLF SCULPTURE as the jaws open, its eyes glow red. and the dreadful sound of the Psychostridulator grinds up and FILLS THE NIGHT
CASANOVA: WHAT A RUSH! ON MONICA, still motionless on the bed. Casanova and Furious collide in the center of the room and grapple in a contest of psychotically enhanced superhuman strength. Casanova gets his hands around Furious's throat and crushes it. Furious drops to his knees, and Casanova thinks he's got him. But Furious, grimacing with rage, looks him right in the eye.
FURIOUS: ( raspy voiced ) Is. that. all you got? Furious grabs Casanova's wrists. and crushes them. Casanova howls with pain, loses his grip. Furious slugs him, again and again. then he grabs Casanova by the belt, swings him around, and HURLS him into the air. Casanova CRASHES into the huge crystal chandelierthere is an explosion of crystal and glass. Furious averts his eyes as cut glass rains down all around him. then he looks up and sees. Casanova's gold chain has hooked onto a fixture of the chandelier. Casanova kicks and flails. as he is hanged by the neck on his own gold chain. Furious moves to the wolf sculpture. Be PLUNGES HIS HAND through its bronze casing, and RIPS OUT the heart of the Psychostridulator, a flashing football sized device that gives off an unamplifjed, but higher pitched and more irritating sound. Furious HURLS the device hard against the floor, and it smashes into a thousand pieces.
FURIOUS: Nice dancing with you.
FURIOUS: He touches her face, her eyes open, and she looks at him.
MONICA: You're beautiful when you're angry. He takes her tenderly in his arm. as the Raja, the Shoveler and the others rush into the room and see. Furious and Monica embracing.
RAJA: She is there, waiting up for him.
RAJA: I'm home. They embrace.
DON: Few details have emerged. ON THE SHOVELER'S KIDS, on the couch, still rattled by their psychotic episode, glued to the TV -
KIDS: Dad!. Dad!. You okay?. You hurt?
SHOVELER: ( shocked by this welcome ) I'm okayI'm all right.
LENORE: I'll hold your shovel, Dad. They lead him back into the living room, and give him the prime spot on the couch.
BUTCH: You want a soda, Dad?
SHOVELER: ( stunned ) He runs to get it as Eddie Jr. slides a footstool under his feet and Tracy puts a pillow behind his back. Roland, the little one, cuddles up next to him, puts his arm around him.
ROLAND: Nice work. Dad.
SHOVELER: Thanks, Roland.
ROLAND: You really are a superhero, aren't you? The Shoveler nods. A few minutes later. The Shoveler sits on the couch, feet up, soda in hand. The television is off. His kids all huddled around him, hanging on his every word.
SHOVELER: And that's when the engine blew up.
KIDS: What did you do?
BUTCH: What did you do?
SHOVELER: ON LUCILLE as she comes in and sees. her husband surrounded by his kids, a happy man at last.
DOC HELLER: So you're never actually conscious of range or Heck no. I just chuck 'em. Monica ( in her waitress outfit ) sits close to a bandaged Mister ON THE TV - Dawn Wong reports.
RAJA: Heck no. I just chuck 'em. Monica ( in her waitress outfit ) sits close to a bandaged Mister ON THE TV - Dawn Wong reports.
DAWN: It's been twenty-four hours since the deadly psycho-sonic attack and bloody shoot-out that left Casanova Frankenstein and dozen of the city's top hoodlums dead. But tonight the question remains. Who were these heroic mystery men who saved our city?.
BOWLER: Could have been anybody. They laugh.
RAJA: Wait a minute. That's it. That's our name. We're. the Mystery Men. They all like it, except for the Bowler.
BOWLER: Hey, do I look like a Man?
SHOVELER: Well we can't call ourselves the Mystery People.
SPLEEN: ( singing, ala "Macho Man" ) Mystery, Mystery Man. I want to be a Mystery Shut up.
BOWLER: Eat your mustard.
FURIOUS: It doesn't matter what we call ourselves. We know who we are.
RAJA: Yes, Obie-wan.
INVISIBLE BOY: Hey. he's gone. The others see. that the Sphinx's chair is empty. Raja spots a crumpled napkin on the table, opens it up, and reads.
RAJA: "Until you need me again. Adios." A silence. Reactions from our heroes as they realize that the Sphinx is gone.
SHOVELER: I miss him already. Suddenly, somewhere in the night, a burst of gunfire and screams are heard. THE FINAL MUSIC BEGINS.
FURIOUS: Amigos, duty calls. The Mystery Men wolf their burgers, then stand and start for the As Monica watches them leave, a PATRON asks her:
PATRON: Miss. who are those guys?
MONICA: ( after a moment ) I don't know.
THE END: Writers : Neil Cuthbert
