"WAR OF THE WORLDS": Screenplay by Josh Friedman & David Koepp Submitted by
FINAL MOVIE SCRIPT: Resized to fit on minimal number of pages [Showing Pictures of City Life]
NARRATOR: No one would have believed in the early years of the21st century, that our world was being watched by intelligences greater than our own. That as men busied themselves about their various concerns, they observed and studied. Like the way a man with a microscope might scrutinize the creatures that swarm and multiply in a drop of water. With infinite complacency men went to and fro about the globe, confident of our empire over this world. Yet, across the gulf of space, intellects, vast and cool and unsympathetic regarded our plant with envious eyes. And slowly and surely, drew their plans against us.
SAL: Tadesko can't move 40 containers in an hour. I need somebody who can do double picks.
MARY ANN: We said 8:00.
RAY: (changing subject) Hey, this is one safe looking vehicle you got yourself here Tim. Congratulations.
RAY: 8 o'clock huh?
MARY ANN: Um-Huh. We'll be back by 9:30 on Sunday, depending on the traffic.
RACHEL: Hello dad.
RAY: Hello, Rachel! Rachel gives him a hug and goes back to the car to retrieve her bag. She struggles and Mary Ann, Tim, and Ray try to help which results in a small bicker argument. (Ray, Tim, and Mary Ann add lib.)
MARY ANN: Well we can't roll it up the stairs now can we?
RAY: (mad) Would you close the door please? Now that that's my refrigerator.
MARY ANN: I'd better get this upstairs. Ray tries to further rid of her but she continues.
RACHEL: (trying to get her bag form Mary Ann) Mom, Mom!
MARY ANN: I can get it.
RAY: (rushes to close his bedroom door, as if hiding something) Excuse me.
MARY ANN: No, I do. Mary Ann walks over to Robbie on his bed and grabs his MP3 player. She un-plugs the headphones and the music stops. Ray sits down on a desk chair.
ROBBIE: I just got to type it up. (makes typing motion)
MARY ANN: I love you. (begins walking over to Rachel) Listen to your father.
MARY ANN: Oh, no shoes on the bed. INT Ray's House - Walking Down Stairs - Dawn
MARY ANN: We'll be at my parent's house in Boston but don't call the house line, because you know. Well the point is I've got my cell phone. So if anything comes up, or if you have any questions just call.
RAY: Mary Ann? (beat) It's a good look for you.
RAY: Yeah.
MARY ANN: Take care of our kids.
RAY: Mary Ann, you got nothing to worry about. Listen, you tell your mother that Ray sends his love and kisses.
RAY: Five minutes. It's not going to kill you.
RAY: There he is. (Robbie puts on his new cap) Boston? (hesitating) That's how it is? (no response from Robbie) That's how it's gonna be?
ROBBIE: Whatever Ray!
RAY: Your mom says you've got a report due on Monday, so you are going to work on that when you're done here.
ROBBIE: Yeah, and what do you know Ray?
RAY: Everything. Haven't you heard? Between me and my brother, we know everything.
RAY: That's one my brother knows.
ROBBIE: Is it okay with you if I just laugh the first 500 times you tell that one.
ROBBIE: You're an asshole. I hate coming here.
RACHEL: That's not how you're going to get through to him. You want him to listen to you...
RAY: To sleep. I work for a living.
RACHEL: What are we supposed to eat?
RAY: You know, order.
INT. RAY'S HOUSE - RAY'S ROOM - DAWN: Ray takes off his shirt, seems to loose his cap with it, and takes off his boots as he gets in his bed and goes to sleep.
RACHEL: I got a splinter.
RAY: Where'd you get it. Come here.
RACHEL: On your porch railing.
RAY: What, you want me to... (beat) You want me to take that out for you?
RAY: Well, come here let me see it. Rachel shows him but doesn't let him touch it for fear he may pull it out. Rachel and Ray ad lib as she stops moving it and he looks at it.
RACHEL: No it wont.
RAY: Yes, it's gonna get infected.
RACHEL: No, it won't. When it's ready, my body will just push it out.
RACHEL: I read that. (as she sits back down) You should get TiVo. Tim got it for my room. It's awesome. I can watch all my shows after homework.
RAY: Hummus?
RACHEL: From the health food place. I kept one of their menus last time we were here.
RAY: (laughs) I meant order food! Where is Robbie?
RAY: Out where?
RACHEL: I don't know. He just took your car and left.
FRIEND 2: What?
RAY: The wind is blowing toward the storm.
RAY: Rachel, wanna see something cool?
RAY: It's okay.
RACHEL: I want to go inside.
RAY: It's okay.
RACHEL: I want to go inside.
RAY: Okay, you go ahead. The friend's baby starts to cry...
FRIEND 2: That's enough weather for me. (begins walking inside)
RACHEL: No.
RAY: Oh, Come on. It's like the fourth of July.
RACHEL: It hit right behind our house.
RAY: Yeah, well it's not gonna hit there again because lighting doesn't strike twice in the same place.
RAY: Oh, SHIT! They both get under the table for safety as the LIGHTING continues. They both begin panicking. BAM!! BAM!! BAM!! The LIGHTNING goes on with no apparent end. Ray and Rachel both scurry on the floor under the table as the lighting goes on.
RAY: I don't know.
RACHEL: Is Robbie okay? (no response) Are you okay?
RAY: Where's the thunder?
RACHEL: Why won't it stop? Pan out from under the table as the lightning subsides and all is silent.
RAY: Just checking things out. Just wait, wait there.
RAY: I don't know.
RACHEL: You don't know.
RAY: No. I meant... Rachel, please, just stop asking so many questions. Just wait here.
ROBBIE: The car just stopped and...
RAY: (interrupts him) You're okay? Are you okay?
ROBBIE: Yeah.
RAY: Okay, well, you're okay?
ROBBIE: Yeah.
RAY: Good, because your sister is in the house, I want you to go in that house and I want you to stay with her. Okay? (break, as he starts running down the street) And the next time you take my car with no driver's license and no permission, I call the cops. You better be there when I get back.
MANNY: Not even close. I thought if I changed it... you got any idea what's going on?
RAY: (joking) I should of known you two were behind this.
FRIEND 4: You see it?
RAY: Yep, you got power where you are?
RAY: It's the cars though. That's the thing.
FRIEND 4: Yeah, the sun shoots off blobs of plasma, they turn into solar flare flashes. It's the only thing that can kill all of the electronic stuff.
FRIEND 4: What bro?
FRIEND 3: The sun does not cause lightning, okay?
RAY: No. It's freezing. The police officers and the other people gathered around feel a vibration under their feet.
RAY: You feel that?
FRIEND 3: Yeah, I feel that.
FRIEND 4: What is it the subway?
COP 1: There's no subway here.
FRIEND 4: PATH Train maybe?
COP 1: That can't be the water main.
COP 2: There's nothing else down there.
COP 1: The water main doesn't run through here.
FRIEND 4: Ray, no, stay man. The machine makes a large vibrating noise as if calling out to other robots. It arms it's disintegrator beams and opens fire. People can be seen to disintegrate as they are struck with the beam. The beams, when fired make a zap sound. People start exploding into dust and their clothes are blown away. Ray misses numerous beams by a foot or two as he goes into a convenience store. Again Ray runs out the back door and misses another beam by inches. He runs his ass off trying to escape the robot. Disintegrator beams strike off rooftops to clear a walking path. Ray hides behind a building as the machine walks by.
ROBBIE: What's all that stuff all over you?
ROBBIE: Hello? Ray? Ray looks at his arms which are coated in the white powder. He gets up and begins heading for the bathroom. Still unresponsive to the questions he was just asked. He looks in the mirror to see that he is covered in the whit powder (human ash). He quickly does his best to wash it off realizing what it is. After washing it off, he begins mentally planning what to do.
RAY: We're leaving this house in 60 seconds.
RACHEL: Dad, you're really scaring me.
RAY: I need you to get your suitcase...
RAY: The one that you brought, bring it to me, okay?
INT. RAY'S HOUSE - RAY'S ROOM - EVENING: Ray runs into his room while Rachel and Robbie are downstairs. He hastily enters the combination to a metal box that contains a hand gun. He tucks the gun into his belt on his back and folds his shirts over it.
RAY: Shh, Shh, I can't tell you now. We... We've only got about another minute.
ROBBIE: Ray, I'm standing right beside you. Can you please answer me?
RAY: Just get in.
RACHEL: Who's car is this? Ray throws Rachel's bag in the row of seats behind her, slams the door and starts walking to the driver side of the car. He is caught by Manny walking.
MANNY: Hey Ray? Ray? What? Manny walks over to the passenger side as Ray and Robbie watch him.
MANNY: What are you...
RAY: (interrupts him) Get in.
MANNY: That's funny, you gotta get out of the car. You can't take it.
MANNY: No, RAY GET OUT OF THE...
RACHEL: What do you mean? A dead silent pause falls on everyone. Robbie stares at Ray in fright as Ray and Manny stare at each other.
RACHEL: Is this the terrorists?!?!
JUST GET DOWN. GET DOWN!: Ray grabs Robbie's collar of his jacket and shoves him toward the floor.
HOLY SHIT!: High shot shows the bridge behind Ray's house being blasted away. The expressway gets hit by the beams and overturns into the houses below. One of them Ray's. An explosion is seen as a fuel tanker falls on Ray's house that obliterates 4 houses. Flaming debris flies all over behind the van.
RAY: We gotta go! We got to be the only working car around here. I'm not stopping until we are clear.
RAY: We gotta go.
YOU SAW! WE'RE UNDER ATTACK!!: Rachel begins frantically crying. After a few seconds, she begins hyperventilating.
RAY: Rachel... Rachel you've got to keep it down Rachel!
ROBBIE: Make the arms. (he grabs her elbows so she holds the position. He begins to calm her down) This space right here, this is yours.
RACHEL: (panting, but keeping eye contact) Yes...
ROBBIE: I'm gonna go to the front seat to talk to dad...
ROBBIE: (reassuring her) I will be two feet away. Okay.
RACHEL: Yes.
ROBBIE: Are you gonna be okay?
RACHEL: (relatively calm) Yes. Robbie grabs her hand and they both lean forward toward the front.
NO ROBBIE!! NOT LIKE EUROPE!!!: Ray swerves to miss a car as the camera cranes around to the driver's side.
RAY: Maybe it came down in the lightning storm.
ROBBIE: Why aren't there any helicopters or airplanes?
RACHEL: I'm fine.
ROBBIE: (to Ray) She's good.
RAY: Good.  Hey, what was that thing you did with her?
RACHEL: I want mom.
RAY: I know. You feel better?
RACHEL: I want mom.
RAY: Yeah, tell me about it, you know?
RAY: Listen, I just need you to hold it together for me, okay?
RAY: When you start screaming like that, you know, I can't really...
TAKE ME TO MOM!!!: Robbie gets back into the back seat to repeat the "arms" process with her to calm her again.
RAY: That's where we're going right now.
EXT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - DUSK: Still in the car...
RACHEL: Come on, hurry up Dad... As soon as the van stops, Robbie gets out and opens the door for Rachel.
RACHEL: Is she dead??
RAY: She's not dead. All right? She's just no here. Okay? They're never here.
RAY: Because they are on their way to Boston....
RAY: Okay, Rachel? This is your area. Okay, you are safe in your area...
RAY: Okay, well, you hungry, huh? I'll get you some food. I'm gonna feed you. Get something to eat.  (digs into the box) What do we have here??
RAY: (laughs) Since when?
RACHEL: (with a snotty look) Birth! Robbie shakes his head yes to her statement.
RAY: Okay, well, umm, here (hands her two pieces of bread) You can eat the bread. Okay?
RAY: Okay, well. Robbie and I are going to be eating peanut butter sandwiches. (to Robbie) You want jelly on this sandwich?
RAY: You're not hungry either? Well, that's fine.
ROBBIE: What are you afraid is gonna happen to us?
RAY: Rachel, no more talking. Robbie puts his hat on Rachel's head and ushers her over to the spot under the stairs where blankets are laid out. Ray walks over to the chair about five feet away from the bed.
ROBBIE: Wanna stay here?
RACHEL: Yeah. Good night, love you.
ROBBIE: Love you, Rache. Ray takes out his gun and puts it under a pillow of the sofa as he sits down. So Robbie and Rachel wont notice.
RAY: No, this is something else... Just as ray finishes, an ear piercing noise from a jet engine begins. The howl rattles things off of shelves on the walls. Robbie and Ray wince at the pain in their ears. Rachel runs up to Robbie and hugs him in security. Things fall off of shelves everywhere.
IS IT THEM!!! IS IT THEM!!!: The lighting grows more intense as does the sound.
WAIT!! WAIT!! WAIT!! WAIT!!: Ray and Robbie run to the door just as a fireball bursts through the windows. Flaming debris follows after. Ray gets the first door closed but the fire blasts through the wooden one. He manages, after a struggle, to get the metal one closed on the inside of the furnace room.
INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - FURNACE ROOM - DAWN: Ray is looking out the window at the top of the room. He is holding on to the metal wire conduit. Seeing hardly anything, he judges it to be safe to go outside the furnace room.
RAY: Were you on this plane? Are you a passenger?
NEWS REPORTER: He's deaf. The shell went off right beside him. The camera on his shoulder saved his life. (to Max) You hear that Max? Your stupid camera saved your stupid life.
NEWS REPORTER: Out there in the pine barrens. We were attached to a National Guard unit, the 83rd Mechanized. They moved to one of those things around midnight. They've got some kind of shield around them. We can't see it, but everything we fire at them detonates too early before we can get close enough to cause any damage. When they flash that thing, everything lights up like Hiroshima.
RAY: There's more than one?
REPORTER: You gotta be kidding me right?
REPORTER: We were feeding New York but New York went dark. So we patched over to D.C., they went down, L.A., Chicago, uplink to London. Even called the affiliates to try and get them to catch the feed, but nobody answered.
REPORTER: You ain't seen nothing yet. She wheels her chair around to show him the next piece.
RAY: I saw that storm. I was right in the middle of one of those.
REPORTER: That is them. They come down in capsules, riding the lighting into the ground into the machines right?
REPORTER: Oh, that's too bad, it would have been a really great story.
INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DAWN: Ray is talking to Rachel...
RAY: Look at me. Look at me. Rachel and Ray are putting on their coats.
RAY: You keep your eyes only on me, you understand?
RAY: Don't look down, don't look around me. I'm taking you to the car and you're gonna want to look around. But you are not going to, are you?
RAY: That's a girl. That's my girl.  Okay, listen, I want you to close your eyes. Got them closed?
RAY: There you go. Keep em' closed for me.
RACHEL: Why are you yelling? Ray gives him a mean look as Robbie realizes that they must go.
RAY: I don't know. Running, hiding, hiding in their basements.
RAY: (angrily) Okay! Enough with the Ray shit!! It's dad, sir, or if you want Mr. Ferrier. That sounds a little weird to me but you decide.
RAY: Yes, Rachel.
RACHEL: I have to go to the bathroom.
RAY: Really? Rachel shakes her head "yes" as he pulls the car over. Ray grabs Robbie by the shirt arm and holds him in the car. He glares at Rachel mean enough to make her freeze in her seat.
RACHEL: I gotta go. Robbie breaks free of Ray's grasp on his sleeve. Robbie and Rachel both get out of the car. Ray follows the both of them to supervise the whole event from the van.
RAY: I'm not gonna look! JUST STAY IN SIGHT!!
THAT'S LOOKING!!: Rachel is about 200 feet away entering a patch of bushes. Robbie has already found a spot about 10' away next to the stream under the road.
RAY: Since when has that stopped you?
INT. VAN - DUSK: Robbie is driving into a city. Ray is sleeping in the passenger seat. The streets are crowded with people walking. Robbie gets worried and gets Ray to drive.
RAY: I don't know Rach.
RACHEL: But we do right?
RAY: Yeah, we do. They continue driving through the crowd as they become more and more mad at Ray for not letting them on. They begin banging on the glass.
RACHEL: Why is he doing that?
RAY: He wants a ride. Everybody just wants a ride.
RAY: Just sit back and put on your seatbelt. Robbie, put on your seatbelt.
ROBBIE: Be careful. People bang on the windows louder as they shout "give me a ride".
POLICE MAN 3: Stop the car!!
RAY: Oh hold on!! Robbie and Ray see a woman standing dead in their way holding a baby. They swerve to miss her.
RAY: (seeing a telephone pole) Oh, GOD!
RAY: Are you okay? Rachel has no time to respond before the back windshield is busted open by a crowd member. The driver and passenger side windows are then promptly busted. Robbie ducks to avoid the flying glass. A man jumps on the hood and starts ripping glass away from the hole in the front windshield. He is so desperate to get in the van he rips his hands to shreds. A crowd member suggests to "push it". He does so and the glass falls through.
ROBBIE?!?! ROBBIE?!?!?: Ray then screams to the rioting crowd who are now pulling him out of the driver's side window.
DADDY!!!!: A man from the crowd runs up to Rachel's window, breaks it, and tries to grab Rachel. Ray pulls the man out and throws him back into the crowd.
DADDY!!!: Ray wrestles another man trying to grab Rachel. The man gets tossed to the ground. Just as Ray stands up... WHAM!!! Ray is hit in the back of the head by a man with a baseball bat. The blow was not severe enough to cause life threatening damage to Ray.
DADDY!!!: Rachel tries to get out, but there is an overflow of people barreling into the car through the windows. She is surrounded by people in the car. Robbie and Ray are getting beat in the crowd.
RAY: Where's my son?!?!
RIOT MAN 1: You don't need that, Man!
DAD!!!: The camera moves from Robbie to Ray, then pivots on his face to reveal a man holding another gun at Ray's head.
RIOT MAN 3: (shaking the gun nervously) Put down the gun, I'm taking the car.
PUT DOWN THE GOD DAMN GUN!!!: Ray is scared into dropping his gun on the street. Ray then puts his hands near his head to avoid being shot.
RAY: Sheryl?
SHERYL: Yeah. Ray and Sheryl hug as they are re-united.
SHERYL: Oh, my gosh, are these your kids?
SHERYL: Hi, I'm Sheryl, this is my daughter, Nora.
RAY: Hi, I've heard about you, Nora. Rachel looks at sea gulls that are flying rather fast away from the boat. Robbie meets Sheryl with Ray.
ROBBIE: Hi Sheryl.
SHERYL: He's just like dad. Rachel continues watching the gulls.
SHERYL: How you doing? You look like shit.
CAST OFF NOW!!! GET THAT RAMP UP!!!: (to soldiers) No more people! No more people! We're taking the ramp up.
SHERYL: Jesus. Oh my god!
RAY: Come on. The harbor master hit's the switch to start the ramp motor to begin folding up the ramp. Soldiers shove empty cars off the ramp.
RAY: There's room on the boat!!!
RAY: Stay with me! Stay with me Robbie!!!
ROBBIE!!!: Robbie, panting hard, looks at the inclining ramp and sees there are still people hanging on to the back side of the ramp. He starts running to the stern of the ship.
ROBBIE!!!: Robbie ignores them as he jumps onto the grate of the folded up ramp. Climbing to the top, he begins helping those who are hanging on the back side of the ramp.
INT. CAPTAIN'S CONTROL ROOM - DUSK: The captain sees some sort of whirlpool sucking water down into a hole. The ship begins to slowly turn toward the hole, being sucked in.
ROBBIE: (gagging) Okay. Robbie almost slips as he gags, still fighting for breath.
RAY: Don't stop. Don't stop. Alert sirens can be heard coming from the city. Ray pulls the two of them.
ROBBIE: (yells in pain) AHHH. They all lay on the hillside, gasping for air. In the distance they look... Two robots are still picking people up out of the water. Two more robots have joined and are picking up people off the streets. Many people scream.
RACHEL: Robbie, slow down!!! Robbie, who is coming closer to the hill, sees army trucks rolling down the road and up the hill. Seeing this, Robbie walks into a slow run along the fence line. Ray and Rachel try to keep up.
RAY: Robbie. We got to stay together Robbie.
RAY: Robbie! Stay together! ROBBIE!!! Ray and Rachel duck as a missile comes EXTREMELY CLOSE to their heads. Jets speed by them overhead. Rachel screams.
GET BACK HERE!!!: Robbie, in a full scale run, runs with the army trucks that have now taken to the hills. Ray and Rachel run as fast as they can to try to stay with Robbie.
STAY RIGHT HERE! I'M COMING RIGHT BACK!: (calling out for him) ROBBIE!!!
ROBBIE!!! ROBBIE!!!: Robbie is held back by two soldiers. Robbie gets thrown back by them where Ray grabs him and pins him to the ground. Robbie fights to get back up.
WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS???: Soldiers are blasting everything they have to something over the hill. Radio people are telling their officers "no effect on target".
LISTEN TO ME!: Rachel watches helicopters fire missiles simultaneously over the hill.
PLEASE LET ME GO!!!: Rachel is approached by people. They think she's alone so they try to talk her into coming with them (ad lib).
DAD!!: Ray sees the couple trying to get Rachel to go with them. For a second, Ray doesn't know what to do.
ROBBIE: I need to be here! I want to see this!
ROBBIE!!!: By now, Robbie has run over the hill and is long out of site. A robot that appears to be on fire comes slowly rising over the hill. Ray makes a run for it down the hill. We can see three robots now rising over the hill. Missiles and bullets are being fired at them as their shields block all the fired artillery.
HARLAND: Hurry!! The three of them scurry into the basement. Ray and Rachel run into the main room while Harland proceeds to close the cellar doors. Gunfire can be heard alongside the screams from people. Lights flash through the cracks in the walls and door.
HARLAND: (to Ray) And what about you? Ray looks up at him and looks at the lantern. He is still heard muttering "Robbie" very quietly.
RAY: He's gonna meet us. Hey, Robbie's gonna meet us, Rach, In Boston, at your grandma's.
RAY: You won?
RACHEL: The walk, trot, and canter. Third place.
RACHEL: Sing me "Lullaby and Goodnight"?
RAY: (shakes his head in displeasure because he can't think of it) I don't remember that one.
RAY: I'm sorry Rach, I don't know that one either.
RAY: (continues singing) ... If I had a set of wings, man, I know she could fly. She's my little deuce coupe. You don't know what I've got... just my little deuce coupe. (now whispering) You don't know what I've got....
HARLAND: Disgusting, I know it. I found a whole case of this shit.
RAY: Thank you. Silence falls over for a period.
HARLAND: I'm sorry about your son.
RAY: We got separated... he's gonna meet us in umm... in Boston.
RAY: Did you... (pauses) ... (whispers) Did you loose anybody?
HARLAND: (introduces himself) Harland Ogilvy.
HARLAND: I got water... Food.... Enough for weeks. You're welcome to stay, both of yous.
RAY: I'm sorry. I'm gonna get some sleep.
HARLAND: Think about it.    ...    They defeated the greatest power in the world in a couple days. Walked right over us. ....    And these are only the first, they'll keep coming. This is not a war any more than there's a war between men and maggots. This is an extermination.
HARLAND: (feeling he's not grasping the reality) Are you afraid?
HARLAND: (going on) I been around death plenty. Drive an ambulance in the city. Well, drove and ambulance in the city. That's all over now, huh?    ....   You know the people who make it Ray? The ones that don't flatline before the hospital? It's the ones who keep their eyes open, keep looking at you, keep thinking. ....    There the ones who survive... ....   We can' t loose our heads Ray.   ....   Running, that's what'll kill you.    ......     I'm dead set on livin'.
HARLAND: Hah. Dead set on Living. Harland walks back over to the place where the conversation first started.
HARLAND: We're not going to be exterminated.
HARLAND: We're gonna fight them Ray. They gotta have a weakness. Come on, take a look.
RAY: Stay right there! Ray opens up a window guard to see two robots skimming the ground almost as if they are tilling up the soil. He now understands that robots do this on a regular basis.
RAY: Listen. It stopped.
HARLAND: (paying no attention) Maybe you'll be okay. Maybe you'll get lucky and they'll train you as their pet. You know, train you, feed you, teach you how to do tricks...
HARLAND: Then they spray us, like a fertilizer!
HARLAND: Drink US and....
RAY: They're gonna come back down here!
HARLAND: Then they spit us out all over their goddamn red weeds!
HARLAND: This tunnel will get us to the city. We'll have our own tunnels there. Ready Made! Subway, see what I'm saying!
HARLAND: You can hide a whole army down there!
HARLAND: ... We'll go underground!
HARLAND: Sneak attacks at night!
YOU STOP IT!!!: Ray grabs him by the arm just as he hits ray in the forehead with a shovel. Ray releases his grip and lies on a dirt pile next to Harland.
RAY: Whatever you hear... don't take this off.
RAY: Rach?
RACHEL: Dad?
RAY: What was that song... that lullaby I didn't know?
RAY: Yeah. Please, Rach, sing it.
RACHEL: (begins to sing) ... A gentle breeze....
RACHEL: ... On Hushabye Mountain...
RAY: That's my girl.
RACHEL: ... For far away my baby goes... Ray kisses her hands and has her put them over her ears. Then walks back to Harland. He is still digging and chanting "not my blood"
RACHEL: ... of boats that are waiting ...
RACHEL: ... Waiting to sail your worries away
RAY: Rachel? Rachel? (looks up the stairs) Rachel??
RACHEL!!!! RACHEL!!!: A robot's lights turn on to him as a food lands close enough to him to blow him back. One of the robot's grabbing claws comes after Ray. He hides in a truck. The claw breaks through the glass, grabs the car, and flips it, causing it to roll about 3 times.
NO NO NO!!!: The robot blasts through a building. Ray is right behind the foot. He runs into an army vehicle and finds a belt full of grenades. He takes on off, removes the pin and throws it at the robot.
HEY!!!: It hit's the robot's shields and the robot turns right around. It eyeballs Ray for a moment and picks him up by a grabbing claw.
RACHEL!!: He goes towards her just as the door opens, it makes a sound and a grabbing claw comes out of a hole on the robot. Ray falls down (luckily), it grabs another person and sucks him into the ship. The same happens in the other cage.
RAY: Rachel.
RACHEL: Dad? Ray goes to speak just as BOOM! The grate shifts, tossing all the people around and the door opens to take another person up. Ray ducks down with Rachel but this is noticed by the grabbing claw. He is swept up by it. Rachel holds on to his neck to go with him. But then, Ray sees his belt of grenades. He prigs Rachel's hands off of him and grabs the grenades. A soldier sees this and latches onto Ray's arm.
EVERYBODY DOWN!!!: Hardly anybody gets down as the inside of the robot explodes. We can see the robot exploding on the inside. It breaks doors and fluid stars spilling out of it. The robot releases it's cages and they fall into a tree. Splitting open. People promptly climb out.
SOLDIER 3: I don't know, something's happening to them. Please keep moving.
RAY: Something's happening to them?
SOLDIER 4: Go. Go. Just keep moving, sir. Ray asks another soldier down the road for information.
RAY: Excuse me, excuse me, what happened here? You guys take it down?
RAY: Rachel, I'm not sure. Seeing another robot, one soldier motions to get into the water tunnel. Other soldiers make signals to get set up for defense if necessary. Everyone gets into the tunnel. A soldier can be heard telling everyone "calm down and get in the tunnel".
RAY: (louder) LOOK AT THE GOD DAMN BIRDS!!!
SOLDIER 6: (motions and says) I CAN'T HEAR YOU!!!
SOLDIER 6: (now getting it) (to the soldiers) THE
IT'S CLEAR!: We watch the alien turn to stone as it dies. Boston - Walking Down Street near Mary Ann's Mother's house - Day
MOM!!!: They hug each other crying. Mary Ann looks at Ray who is still standing in the middle of the street.
THE END: Roll Credits
