WANTED: Written by Michael Brandt & Derek Haas
WESLEY: .so by the time I got back to my cubicle, my eyelids were so damn heavy, I had to put my head down, even if it was just for a wink.
PUJA: I didn't expect for you yourself to come. One of the heads, in the flesh.
MR. X: You're an important fence.
PUJA: I'm flattered. She reaches over to an attach€ case and removes a file.
PUJA: There.have been five attempts on his life, but he has been well protected. and well hidden. Turns out his wife's family has a lot of money. He's in town to accept an award.
MR. X: We'll see to it that it never makes his And for that, my clients will pay Mr. X is looking at Puja when a curious thing happens. .he notices that the red bindi on he r forehead tarts to move a little, like a second dot is trying to emerge from it, like an amoeba splitting. It's a sh hooter's laser! His eyes go wide as saucers. MR. x
PUJA: And for that, my clients will pay Mr. X is looking at Puja when a curious thing happens. .he notices that the red bindi on he r forehead tarts to move a little, like a second dot is trying to emerge from it, like an amoeba splitting. It's a sh hooter's laser! His eyes go wide as saucers. MR. x
GET DOWN1!1: .but it's too late as bullets rip into her head. splattering everything above her eyebrows into the wet Mr. X crouches, drops his hands behind his back, and a. PAIR OF GUNS as technologically advanced as anything we've ever seen spring into his hands. The bullets .stop flying and he sprints at the window from which they came, smashing t rough what remains of it, disappearing from the demolished room. .all this as Puja's dead body hits the floor, blood seeping out of that holy third eye.
LAST MARKSMAN: ( SOFTLY ) C'mon, c'mon, c'mon. He looks out at the stairwell door. and all is quiet. Maybe Mr. X didn't know he was there, maybe he left, maybe the last marksman can sneak away after all.
LAST MARKSMEN: ( SOFTLY ) Okay. okay. He finally decides. .and takes one step forward. THWAP1!1 A bullet disintegrates his knee. He falls, clutching the knee in agony, as Mr. X walks toward him slowly until he stands right over him like a hunter over his prey. Mr. X's shoe comes down on the final marksman's wrist, pinning it away from his dropped weapon.
MR. X: ( GROWLS ) Who sent you?
LAST MARKSMEN: ( NERVOUSLY ) We're. we're just the decoys, man. We were paid to get you out here. The marksman points at a small VIDEO CAMERA sitting on the roof, relaying their every move. Mr. X's face falls as.those words register, and just RA ROCKETS over thetreets of the city, block after block in the blink of any eye. .until it reaches a rooftop, over a mile away.
FOX: It was a set-up all the way? Sloan just nods. He then stoops down, shoos some of the flies away with the back of his hand and picks up the file that Puja gave Mr. X. The CAMERA PUSHES IN on the back of Sloan's hand as he reads the file. It, too, has the tattoo pf the three- headed do q, in the same spot as Mr. X.
SLOAN: He wants out.
FOX: And killing all three heads gets him Sloan nods again.
SLOAN: There's one person who can.
FOX: Yeah? Who? And with that, we.
BOSS JANICE: Oh my fucking god I hope that's not my billing report sitting on your fucking desk. Holy shit on an altar, it isl A couple of the other OFFICE WORKERS look up at the fireworks and smile. like they're actually enjoying Janice's histrionics.
WESLEY: I meant to.
BOSS JANICE: ( imitating him ) I meant to. I meant to. Well I meant to be a size four but meaning to doesn't pick no cotton.
WESLEY: I'll do it.
BOSS JANICE: Minimum for the maximum. That's all you ever do. The minimum you can do to suck the maximum from this company.
WESLEY: I said I'll get it done. I'm sorry.
BOSS JANICE: No, you're worthless. I'm the one who's sorry I hired you. She storms away, fuming. Wesley looks over and sees some of the other workers still staring at him, amused. He sits back down to the semi-privacy of his little CUT TO: INT. MEETING ROOM - DAY A CONSULTANT in a suit is droning on and on in front of a nifty power-point presentation. The CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal Wesley, bored to tears, sitting at a long table with Janice and other corporate The CAMERA FINDS Wesley's note-pad where it looks like he's taking notes on the presentation. Instead, covering every inch of the page, is the phrase "life sucks then you die."
WESLEY: ( HESITANTLY ) Yes. Uh. Well the 602 deals with Everyone is still just staring.
CONSULTANT: I asked you about the effects of net investment income with regards to underwriting cycles.
WESLEY: Well, that's the thing.-
CONSULTANT: What's the thing?
WESLEY: ( trying to redeem himself ) Cycles. Hard market, industry-wide cycles differ from our firm's cycles so I think it's amistake to apply.
JANICE: Good God a'mighty.
CONSULTANT: Son. everyone knows that net investment income is inversely related to both premium and loss reserves, making firm cycles inherently dependent on industry cycles! Everyone snickers.
JANICE: Get it to me by five.
WESLEY: Wesley jots down on his pad: "ACTION ITEMS," and underneath it: "Differential responses. then you die." He underlines it three times.
WESLEY: C'mon, c'mon. After an eternity, the doors open.
CATHY: Where's the spaghetti?
WESLEY: I specifically told you to get noodles on your way home. God, Wesley, I already put the sauce on.
CATHY: I specifically told you to get noodles on your way home. God, Wesley, I already put the sauce on.
WESLEY: Sorry. I•didn't.
CATHY: You didn't listen is what you didn't.- I might as well talk to the wall.
WESLEY: I'll be right back. He turns around.
BARRY: ( INSINCERELY ) You want me to go with you, buddy? What a dick. Wesley doesn't turn around, defeated.
WESLEY: I got it.
FOX: There is a remedy for all things but She said it so fast he's not sure he heard it right. He turns and sees the-hottest zQZM ever to ace Kroger's aisles: ox. She's wearing barely enough clothing to cover her tight body.
WESLEY: ( like he.didn't hear ) I'm sorry?
FOX: You apologize too much.
WESLEY: ( stammers again ) She looks him in the eye.
FOX: Spina bifida babies have more backbone than you. With that, she walks toward the end of the aisle, eyes scanning the whole time. Stunned, all Wesley can do is watch her walk. on the sMll f her back is a tatt It' tattoo we saw in the be i n n : a thKee-head2d dog. She gets to the end and catches him looking at her. Then she makes a very subtle gesture with her head. as if to say "come here." Wesley still isn't sure what the hell is going on. Sheepishly, he makes his way to where she stands. She leans in close, her lips just inches from his ear.
WESLEY: I think you got the wrong guy.
FOX: Can't say that I agree with you, Wesley.
WESLEY: ( running it all together ) What is this? How d'you know my name?
FOX: Your father.
WESLEY: My father died in a car wreck the week I was born.
FOX: ,Your father died two days ago on the rooftop. of the Metropolitan Building. For a moment, just a moment, Wesley is stunned, but Fox just keeps sizing him up.
WESLEY: I've been called a lot of things, but "lady" ain't one of 'em. Wesley starts to talk but Fox interrupts him.
FOX: I've been called a lot of things, but "lady" ain't one of 'em. Wesley starts to talk but Fox interrupts him.
WESLEY: The Fraternity?
FOX: ( keeps right on going ) Your father, Wesley, was set up and gunned down by a man he used to consider a friend. And your father, Wesley. Suddenly, s raises her hands and-LS fist' two blgck
WESLEY: ( SLOWLY ) What is this?
FOX: This is what you've dreamt about all your Just then, Cross o s the corner to t e' e also fisting a Da'r of alms. Wesley's eyes go wide as Fox suddenly starts firing, BAM! BAMI BAMZ BAMI BAM: forcing Cross to take cover on the far side of the aisle.
FOX: But Fox just leaps into the passenger seat, guns up and ready, as Wesley's legs. somehow take over and he hops behind the wheel. Just then, Cross's ev ll Mound the corner, practically going up on two tires. Wham! Wesley turns the ignition, pope the clutch, and smashes the gas pedal as the car nearly snaps his neck when it launches forward. He races through the gears and rips around a corner and out into traffic.
WESLEY: But Fox just leaps into the passenger seat, guns up and ready, as Wesley's legs. somehow take over and he hops behind the wheel. Just then, Cross's ev ll Mound the corner, practically going up on two tires. Wham! Wesley turns the ignition, pope the clutch, and smashes the gas pedal as the car nearly snaps his neck when it launches forward. He races through the gears and rips around a corner and out into traffic.
FOX: Just drive! The Chevelle stays on his tail behind them; Cross drives and fires his Glock at the same time. Bam! Bam! Sam! Fox does her best to send bullets back his way, while Wesley mans the wheel, breathing hard, still stunned at what is happening. He spots a side-street.
WESLEY: Hold on! .whips the car into a rubber-squealing turn.
WESLEY: Go around it!
FOX: Go around it!
WESLEY: No! Shoot the tires! Fox looks at Wesley, momentarily stunned by his idea, then spins and fires away at the oncoming truck. The front tires on the truck explode and the truck veers hard right, where it bounces off a Fed Extrugk.,,, hat sends it into a violent roll. Wesley guns the Ferrari at the tumbling truck as it flips forward. right over their car!!! Wesley watches it fly over them, amazed his idea worked. when finally it SMASHES down into the street between them and Cross's Chevellel Cross is forced to slam on his brakes and slide out. but it's too late. his Chevelle smashes into the 4 X 4 before skidding to a stop, a tangled mess in the street. Wesley snaps back to reality and rips the Ferrari off the one-way street and down a side street.
FOX: ( SMILING ) There's a lot of things you don't know about yourself, Wesley.
WESLEY: Who was that?
FOX: That. was the man who killed your father. And now he's trying to kill you. Wesley forces a laugh, but right now it's hard to paint any-thing as ludicrous.
WESLEY: No. I mean. I told you my father died when I was a baby. She leans right into his face so that their noses are only inches apart.
FOX: Have you ever believed that? Have you ever been content with that answer? Wesley stops, not sure of anything right now.
FOX: The people I work with. we believe your father passed his skills on genetically to you. You knew how to handle the car, you knew to shoot at the truck.
WESLEY: I. I. It's that confidence we're gonna need to work on. Wesley is still dazed.
FOX: It's that confidence we're gonna need to work on. Wesley is still dazed.
WESLEY: Do you think I look fat in this outfit?
FOX: Do you think I look fat in this outfit?
WESLEY: I thought so. Let's go. She hops out. They walk inside a.
FOX: I thought so. Let's go. She hops out. They walk inside a.
FOX: Mr. Sloan. The Butcher looks up from his work and lays down the knife, right next to where Mr. Sloan has a pair of silver pistols and a magnifying glass resting on a rolling FOX ( CONT'D ) ( PROUDLY ) This is Wesley Gibson. He needs his life The Butcher looks him over.
THE BUTCHER: We all end up where we belong, don't we? The Butcher snickers. Sloan speaks up.
SLOAN: Fox told you about your father? Wesley looks from Sloan to Fox to the Butcher and back to ( STAMMERS ) Like I told. um. the lady here. I think you might ha ve me mixed up with someone else. I'm just an. um. account serv. uh..that is. account manager. and. my father died. He hesitates.
WESLEY: ( STAMMERS ) Like I told. um. the lady here. I think you might ha ve me mixed up with someone else. I'm just an. um. account serv. uh..that is. account manager. and. my father died. He hesitates.
SLOAN: They look at him, imploringly, waiting for an answer.
WESLEY: I. I guess I'm not sure. Sloan simply picks up one of the pistols and sticks the gun in Wesley's hand.
SLOAN: Shoot the wings off the flies.
WESLEY: ( GROWLS ) Shoot. the wings. off the flies. For. the first time, Wesley notices flies buzzing all I don't. In the blink of an eye, Sloan has plucked the second gun off the rolling table and ',s -pointing it at Weslev's temple. He begins to count.
SLOAN: ( GROWLS ) Shoot. the wings. off the flies. For. the first time, Wesley notices flies buzzing all I don't. In the blink of an eye, Sloan has plucked the second gun off the rolling table and ',s -pointing it at Weslev's temple. He begins to count.
WESLEY: I don't. In the blink of an eye, Sloan has plucked the second gun off the rolling table and ',s -pointing it at Weslev's temple. He begins to count.
SLOAN: You have three seconds. Three. two. Before he can say one, Wesley reacts. blindly firing the pistol in his hand, indiscriminately, B,AM! BAM! BAM! BAM! CLICK.CLICK.CLICK. until his finger is just jamming on the trigger over and over. After a moment, he looks up, unsure why he isn't dead.
FOX: Like I said, you got the skills.
SLOAN: And after we fine tune those skills. His eyes lock on to Wesley's, holding them in a vice-like SLOAN ( CONT'D ) .you're going to hunt the man who killed Your father. Wesley is as stunned as we've ever seen him. he blinks a couple of times.
SLOAN: I know thin is hard for you to understand, Wesley, but I want you to concentrate on what I'm saying. Your father was a member of the Fraternity, a collection of the most powerful assassins the world has ever known. They weave against the flow of pedestrians out and about on the city streets. Instinctively, people step out of their way.
WESLEY: But I've never heard of.
SLOAN: We don't advertise Wesley. We blend into the environment like moths against a CUT TO: INT. RESTAURANT - DAY The CAMERA moves over a diner's counter.
SLOAN: Because the easiest place to hide is in plain sight. .until it finds a GUN SALESMAN holding out a weapon to an Italian customer. He also has the tattoo. He's THE
SLOAN: ..until that time when we are called into action.
A,: he's cutting a hole all the way through the hedge. Then, he reaches down into his burlap sack and withdraws a long range rifle with a scope. He pokes the rifle through the freshly-cut hole, looks through the lens, starts to squeeze his trigger. The CAMERA SHOOTS WAY UP to give us an aerial view of the neighborhood. We see that we are in the hills over the city, and across the canyon, a Japanese man is just pulling into his driveway, driving a black Audi, a mile He brakes his car, opens his door, but THWAPI A bullet disintegrates his head and he topples over, never knowing what hit him. Back at the hole in the hedge, we see the Gardener's eyeball looking through from the other side. until it disappears and he is gone.
SLOAN: We have been active for centuries, Wesley. outlasting rulers, governments, nations, kings. We recognize no borders; the entire globe is our killing field. They are buzzed through by THE PHARMACIST, and enter.
SLOAN: We are the baddest of the bad, the three- headed dog that guards the gates of hell. We show no mercy, we destroy the weak, we have absolute power.
WESLEY: Why would you do that? Sloan puts a hand on Wesley's shoulder, gently. Your father was like a brother to me.
SLOAN: Your father was like a brother to me.
THE PHARMACIST: 'Ah, made your choice, did 'ja, of boy?
WESLEY: ( UNCOMFORTABLY ) THE PHARMACIST Very good, very good. He walks behind Wesley.
THE PHARMACIST: Very good, very good. He walks behind Wesley.
WESLEY: Is this the beginning of my training?
THE PHARMACIST: Quite right. The Pharmacist cracks his knuckles and then, WHAM!!! He hits Wesley so hard right in the cheek that it almost knocks him out of the chair.
WESLEY: What the fuck are. WHANIlM 4!!!1 The Pharmacist smashes him again. Wesley struggles against the ropes but isn't going anywhere. The Pharmacist rears back. and WHAM! WHAMMM! WHAMQ! keeps hitting him over-and over again until Wesley's eyes roll to the back of his head.
NICOLE: What happened to your face? Wesley turns in his chair, surprised. Nicole stands there, looking as pretty as ever, way out of -his league.
WESLEY: ( SHEEPISH ) I. uh.I got hit by a man much bigger than me. Nicole smiles, flirtatiously.
NICOLE: Was this over a girl?
WESLEY: Something like that.
NICOLE: I had no idea you had such a secret life outside of here. She cocks her head and studies him.
WESLEY: No. Not really. Same old Wesley.
NICOLE: I don't think so. She puts her hand on top of his; he can only stare at it. this kind of thing just doesn't happen to him.
WESLEY: Would you consider me to be an observant What's that mean? Wesley's about to say something, when he spots Janice heading their way. Wesley nods at her and Nicole frowns.
NICOLE: What's that mean? Wesley's about to say something, when he spots Janice heading their way. Wesley nods at her and Nicole frowns.
BOSS JANICE: Jesus H. Fucking Popscile, you don't have time to get me the differential responses but you got time to chitty-chatty with the intern? Why do I even keep you around, Wesley? Well I know one thing, your review is coming up next week and I can't wait to start checking me off some boxes. attitude: poor, performance: poor, management skills: poor, works well with others. Wesley just focuses on that mouth. Fat lips over fat gums over yellow teeth. But now all that's coming out of it is JIBBERISH. ' I Jibberish that goes straight from her larynx to Wesley's ears where it imbeds in the soft flesh of his brain and BURNS. It's so goddamn loudl if only. .if only it would just.
WESLEY: ( ROARS ) SHUT THE FUCK UP11!!1111 It's so unbelievably stunning coming out of Wesley's mouth that it hits Janice like a slap in the face. Heads all over the office start to poke out of the tops of their cubicles like gophers coming out of holes. Nicole watches, pleasantly stunned, from a few feet away. Janice looks around, shocked. Wesley likes the way that felt, so.
LOUDMOUTH: That was great dude! He holds up his hand for a high-five, but Wesley just WALLOPS him with a right cross, not breaking stride on his way to the elevators.
FOX: What's up, new man?
WESLEY: You were watching?
FOX: Never stopped. How'd it feel, saying exactly what you wanted to say?
WESLEY: Like I had a gun in my hands. Fox grins as Wesley jumps in the car and she mashes on the pedal. The Diablo's tires smoke as she launches it out of there.
FOX: You need to get used to the blood and the muscle and the meat and the sinew and what a single blade of steel can do to a chunk of flesh. The Butcher turns and slices a chunk of tenderloin off of one of the hanging carcasses, then slaps it on the table.
THE BUTCHER: Will do, Fox. The Butcher measures Wesley, then starts to talk in a steady, almost bored voice.
THE BUTCHER: If you want the jugular, pull your enemy's head to the left and jab your knife well into his sterno-cleio- mastoideus muscle, here, then cut down and left. Just like before, we smash cut to.
FOX: You haven't quite figured out this whole "blending in" thing, yet. Let's go.
WESLEY: What is this?
FOX: She picks the lock and they step inside.
FOX: This is the Roach Motel, Wesley. Wesley looks around, disgusted.
SLOAN: Selecting your weapon and then disposing of it is the most pivotal aspect of every An array of firearms are on a shelf next to Wesley.
WESLEY: Computer chips?
SLOAN: ( NODS ) Sometimes the closest distance between two points is not a straight line. What if soccer mom here is between you and your target?
WESLEY: I suppose you're going to tell me to shoot her first.
SLOAN: How'd you do in Physics class?
WESLEY: Mostly B's. Fox cocks her head at Wesley, knows he's lying.
SLOAN: I couldn't remember all the rules
WESLEY: I couldn't remember all the rules
SLOAN: That's it. Rules. What if I told you there weren't any? He nods at Wesley, like he's on to something.
WESLEY: Every day.
SLOAN: Because you use your brain differently than other people. All Fraternity members do.
WESLEY: I don't get it.
SLOAN: Humans use neurons to think. But most people can only handle a small percentage of those neurons firing at once without suffering a seizure or an aneurism. Not us. And not you. We have the ability to think differently than other people.
WESLEY: So we set our own rules.
SLOAN: That's right. Sloan hands him back the weapon.
WESLEY: Just the flies.
SLOAN: So you have no pre-conceived habits we need to break. Shoot the target. Don't hit mom.
WESLEY: You mean curve the bullet? How?
SLOAN: This isn't about "how." It's about "what." If you'd never been told a bullet flies straight and I handed you this and said hit that target. what would you do? Allow your instincts to guide you. Just like the flies.
CATHY: Oh my god, Wesley, where have you been? I've been so worried! But Wesley just pushes past her and starts to throw clothes out of drawers into a black duffel bag.
FOX: You can take the couch until we find you someplace better.
WESLEY: She moves toward a separate bedroom.
FOX: Come on.
FOX: Your father lov ed you, Wesley. He talked about you all the time.
WESLEY: Wesley looks at her hopefully. She smiles, thinking about the past.
FOX: That's a fact. He knew he wasn't supposed to, but he couldn't help it.
WESLEY: You worked with him?
FOX: ( NODS ) He trained me. Made me what I am.
BAM!: He nails Fox in the thigh, and she falls helpless to the FOX ( V.0. ) Motherfucker shot mein the leg. Put a damn hole in my favorite skirt. The figure re-aims, ready to take out the helpless Fox.
WESLEY: What kind of training is that?
FOX: I'm here, aren't I?
WESLEY: My father was Burgess, wasn't he? Fox nods, smiling. They step.
FOX: He didn't hit me anywhere important, and he used pin-shot bullets that didn't do any real damage. But you can be damn sure I don't let any mark get the high ground on me again. Shesmiles at another thought.
WESLEY: We went driving.
FOX: We went driving.
WESLEY: What's this?
FOX: This is where your father was killed. Wesley's eyes narrow and he looks around, taking it all We're not sure. The fence he was meeting was shot in the head. which led him out to here. but it must've been a set-up all along. All I know is it would take a hell of a trap to bring your father down. Wesley crouches down by where his father's body would have been, running his fingers over the gravel rooftop.
WESLEY: We're not sure. The fence he was meeting was shot in the head. which led him out to here. but it must've been a set-up all along. All I know is it would take a hell of a trap to bring your father down. Wesley crouches down by where his father's body would have been, running his fingers over the gravel rooftop.
FOX: We're not sure. The fence he was meeting was shot in the head. which led him out to here. but it must've been a set-up all along. All I know is it would take a hell of a trap to bring your father down. Wesley crouches down by where his father's body would have been, running his fingers over the gravel rooftop.
WESLEY: My whole life I thought he was dead. I shouldn't feel any differently just because it happened 20 years later.
FOX: But, I do. Like I missed my one chance.
WESLEY: But, I do. Like I missed my one chance.
FOX: Well that's why you're here. To make up for lost time. Wesley looks back at her.
WESLEY: Can I see his body?
FOX: We cremate our dead. I'd like to say it's to honor them, but it's mainly to keep anyone from identifying them after they're gone.
WESLEY: These are my father's ashes?
FOX: Sloan said his heart stopped but there was no entry wound?
WESLEY: Sloan said his heart stopped but there was no entry wound?
FOX: That's right.
WESLEY: Can I have a minute?
FOX: She leaves and Wesley approaches the urn holding his He runs his finger over it, and just when we think he's going to have an emotional moment.' ..he smashes the urn on to the stand, the ashes spilling out everywhere. Wesley runs his fingers through the decay: what a mess. there are pieces of bone intermingled in the But then hisfingegs find something in the dust. a BULLET with a hole running down its center. He holds it up to the light for a closer look. As he studies it, we start to hear. WHAM! WHAMI.
THE PHARMACIST: If you get in the hoo-ha of a two on one and find yourself the one, remember that each foe will likely move at the same steady speed away from each other, allowing you to keep a gun on each.
WHAM! WHAM!: THE PHARMACIST ( CONT'D ) Now, if you find yourself one ' on three, that poses a real bit a' ball ache.
SLOAN: Watch the eyes. Look for a slight swelling of the pupil. You can train your body to stay a constant temperature, you can control your heartbeat, but you can't control the center of your eyes. That's how you know when someone is lying to you. Sloan looks right at him. Wesley narrows his eyes, trying to fend off his stare.
WESLEY: I know that's a lie without even seeing your eyes.
SLOAN: I know that's a lie without even seeing your eyes.
WESLEY: Fine. Try something else.
SLOAN: Okay. What are you hiding from me? Wesley looks down, then focuses on Sloan.
WESLEY: Sloan waits. Wesley realizes it's useless to try to keep something from this man. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out the bullet with the hole in its center. places it on the table.
SLOAN: What's this?
WESLEY: The bullet that killed him. You said his heart stopped but there was no entrance wound. This bullet has a hole cut into its center.
SLOAN: You know how a mole buries into the earth by pushing the dirt back around it? I think this bullet does what the mole does. Splits the skin and pushes it back through its center, filling the space it just passed through. Sloan looks at him, like he might have been underestimating him until now.
WESLEY: You know how a mole buries into the earth by pushing the dirt back around it? I think this bullet does what the mole does. Splits the skin and pushes it back through its center, filling the space it just passed through. Sloan looks at him, like he might have been underestimating him until now.
SLOAN: You put this all together on your own? Wesley taps his head.
WESLEY: Firing neurons.
SLOAN: Don't know. But whoever has them isn't long for this place. Sloan reaches down and picks up a binder which he drops on the desk.
WESLEY: What's that?
SLOAN: Cross. The details of his life. q Continue your hunt.
WESLEY: No rules, right? This stops Sloan for a second.
SLOAN: No rules.
SLOAN: We keep a record of every assassination mission, going back to the Ides of March. Maps, diagrams, logistics, complications, weapons of choice. it's all there. Wesley nods, impressed. Sloan just keeps leading him through a set of double doors, into.
WESLEY: What's all this?
SLOAN: Where we plot our local hits. This city is one of the Fraternity's major ( looking around ) This room. The books. Seems low-tech.
WESLEY: ( looking around ) This room. The books. Seems low-tech.
SLOAN: Part of mastering technology is knowing when to use it. Models can't be hacked. Your father built this room himself. Most of the buildings are white, but interspersed amongst them are a few vainted red. Some of the model street lamps are also red.
WESLEY: What's with the red ones? Sloan just smiles. .and THE CAMERA MOVES TO HIS FEET, then PUSHES'IN on one particular street on the map, further in on one RED STREETLIGHT and we.
SLOAN: The Fraternity's grasp reaches every facet of the world's major cities, including their construction. Look at this streetlight. Wesley peers at it. there is a plaque affixed to the pole. the standard thing you find on these things. "Municipal C. W. 63070." But then there is something different on this one. a tiny symbol on the bottom of the plaque. the Cerberus instead of the seal of the cit Sloan presses the symbol and the plaque slides aside, revealing a hollow space behind it. He reaches his hand inside and pulls out a small handgun. flips out the clip expertly, then racks the weapon. Wesley can't believe it.
WESLEY: You have stashes.
SLOAN: Just then, two POLICE OFFICERS walk by, eye.the gun Sloan has pulled out.
WESLEY: Just then, two POLICE OFFICERS walk by, eye.the gun Sloan has pulled out.
POLICE OFFICER: Sloan flashes his tattoo at them.
SLOAN: Keep moving, fellas. They nod and do just that.
WESLEY: Impressed, the Gunsmith moves the corpse closer to the target, making the angle all that much tougher. Wesley gets ready to squeeze his trigger, but a pistol starts FIRING next to him. He looks over. Sloan is standing nr= &o him, firing at the target. Every shot bends around the body and hits right in the forehead of the target. Wesley smiles, impressed. LIBRARY. Wesley thumbs through an old Fraternity book, which has detailed sketches of an assassination in 17th century Paris. MEAT LOCKER. Wesley working out on a heavy bag, honing his punches, the Chef holding the bag for him, muscles MAP ROOM. Wesley walks by himself amongst the miniature city, trying to memorize where the red marks are.
SLOAN: Our job isn't just about how fast or true you shoot, Wesley. Physical agility will always lose to mental agility. It's warfare of the mind. FO 'S APART. Wesley looking at Fox through the bedroom door. SLAUGHTERHOUSE. Wesley working with the Butcher on the art of knife play. MAP ROOM. The Gardener and Fox show Wesley the rooftop of a certain building on the model city, one corner of the roof painted red. ROOFTOP. Fox and the Gardener now with Wesley on that actual rooftop, pointing out firing angles, modes. of ascension, and escape routes. The Gardener moves over to a cornerstone in the roof of the building and then easily lifts it off, revealing a stash of assault rifles. k SHOOTING G . Wesley looking at some ammunition while the Gunsmith talks and demonstrates. He fires at one of the targets, which EXPLODES in a splattered mess and we cut to.
WESLEY: Cross and my father were tight. But Cross thought he should be one of the heads of the Fraternity so he left and vowed to kill the three heads. Which means my father is dead because of petty More reason for Cross to die. Wesley flips to the picture of cross.
FOX: More reason for Cross to die. Wesley flips to the picture of cross.
WESLEY: But I don't see jealousy in those eyes, do you? Fox walks over and slams the binder shut.
FOX: Listen .to me, Wesley. In two weeks, we have to kill Henry Helms. Do-you know who that is?
WESLEY: The journalist who's got a price-tag on his head.
FOX: A price-tag that we're going to collect. Your father was meeting with a fence about the job when Cross took him down. So we can only assume Cross knows about the target too. We. you. have to take Cross out before we prosecute this mission. We can't have him out there as a wildcard, wreaking havoc, do you We've never defaulted on a job and this 1k one won't be the first.
WESLEY: We've never defaulted on a job and this 1k one won't be the first.
FOX: We've never defaulted on a job and this 1k one won't be the first.
FOX: May have found your match, Sloan. Sloan smirks and turns to instruct Wesley.
SLOAN: Pick the weapon, make the kill, destroy the weapon. No other rules. Wesley nods as Gunsmith returns.
WESLEY: ( to the Gunsmith ) Close the gap. Push the body closer to the target..
THE GUNSMITH: It's already at four feet.
WESLEY: THE GUNSMITH Here's two. Your father couldn't even do THE GUNSMITH Wesley, at some point
THE GUNSMITH: Here's two. Your father couldn't even do THE GUNSMITH Wesley, at some point
WESLEY: THE GUNSMITH Wesley, at some point
THE GUNSMITH: Wesley, at some point
WESLEY: Closer. I'll say when.
WN: Gunsmith starts sliding the target closer to the body, until it's actually touching the back of the dead business man!
THE GUNSMITH: How you gonna ?
FOX: Just run it out there. Let the kid work. The Gunsmith shrugs and runs the target down the range. Wesley looks at Sloan.
WESLEY: You wanna go first?
SLOAN: There are limits to everything, Wesley. At some point the body becomes a shield. Wesley pulls his gun and lets loose five rounds, lightning fast. The Gunsmith brings the target back to them. ..a the business man is riddled with es.
THE GUNSMITH: I guess not every rule can be broken.
WESLEY: Check the target. The Gunsmith does and we see that each of the five bullets has passed clean through the cadaver and found it's mark on the target.
WESLEY: There is a look in Wesley's eye we, haven't seen before, a burning, searing fire. As he continues to take punches and count them out.
SLOAN: He's ready. the los2k on Fox's face becomes more and more and sexual until.
FOX: Don't you quit now, baby! Don't you quit Wesley didn't know it could be like this. After they finish, Fox gets up and heads to the shower and he watches her go the whole way. In the doorway, she turns around.
WESLEY: Do you like being the only chick in the ( COYLY ) Who said I was the only sister? Maybe you just haven't met any others yet. Wesley laughs.
FOX: ( COYLY ) Who said I was the only sister? Maybe you just haven't met any others yet. Wesley laughs.
WESLEY: ( playfully back ) Maybe I have and I'm just not telling ( GRINNING ) Hold still. He settles down.
FOX: ( GRINNING ) Hold still. He settles down.
WESLEY: How did you end up here, Fox?
FOX: Same way you did, sugar. They found me.
WESLEY: What did you do before? Fox looks at him, a wry smile on her face.
FOX: Sold perfume. At the mall.
WESLEY: No shit?
FOX: No shit.
WESLEY: I can't see it.
FOX: Get in line.
WESLEY: What made them come after you? I mean, I know why I'm here.
FOX: Fraternity members all have something in their lineage that shows they'll be good at this.
WESLEY: And yours is?
FOX: My great-great-great-grandfather on my mother's side. He was on a slave ship coming over from East Africa and as it was pulling into Charleston, he killed every white man on the ship and swam to shore. They caught him and hung him four days later.
WESLEY: That's terrible.
FOX: I Nah. Motherfucker deserved it. Be raped eight women in those four days. One of them was my great-great-great-grandmama. She pushes her chair back, done with her work. The CAMERA PUSHES IN as Fox removes the device so we can take a look: the three-headed dog has been tattooed into his hand.
WESLEY: Where's the Diablo?
FOX: ( SHRUGS ) I got tired of the color. Wesley can't help but smile, then Fox stops. They're standing right in front of a CAR SHOWROOM, displayed in the window is a MIDNIGHT BLACK PORSCHE 911 convertible sitting in a showroom window. 'us like the one Wesley's father smashed in Fox's story.
FOX: Trial by fire, sugar. Hook a right. Wesley whips the car around a corner.
WESLEY: You need a new wardrobe or something?
FOX: we're here for a reason and it ain't clothes-shopping. Somewhere in that crowd is your first target.
WESLEY: A test?
FOX: ( shakes her head ) The real thing.
WESLEY: Who's the mark?
FOX: You'll know him when you see him.
WESLEY: What if I don't?
FOX: Then you get shot. Fox hands him his Imanishi pistol, which Wesley rolls over in his hand.
BARRY: Wesley. hey dude. Wesley can't believe itl
WESLEY: Get down! .and he's looking at a man we recognize from his office. The Consultant. He's approaching rapidly behind Barry, fisting a 'pair of Just as Barry hits the deck, Wesley pulls the trigger. .but it lust CLICKS, the chamber empty.
FOX: Pin shot bullets. Wesley looks down at the gun.
WESLEY: Just like my father used on you. Fox nods, as the Security Guards go to help the Consultant to his feet.
FOX: ( NODS ) Protecting our assets. She hands the clip from the Imanishi over to Wesley.
SLOAN: The mole bullet is made by a midget t Filipino named Pek War. His fingers are so small that they can shape and smooth the metal better than anyone.
WESLEY: You've known all along. You knew before I ever broke the urn.
SLOAN: I had to let you figure it out for Part of my training.
WESLEY: Part of my training.
SLOAN: Part of your quest. To get to know your ( BEAT ) And his killer. Wesley nods, a grave expression on his face, like he knows what he is going to do next.
PEX WAR: He gets no answer. He remains perfectly still, PEK WAR ( CONT'D ) Two louder THUMPS and a GUNSHOT jerk his head around. Then he's up out of the chair, faster than we thought a little man could move. Breathing ragged, shimmying across his work space, Pek War hurries over to a chest of drawers. He gets to it and throws open the bottom drawer to reveal a stash of handguns. He reaches for one. .but the muzzle off a pistol comes _ uE to the back of his head and the hammer clicks as it is pulled back. Pek War throws his hands up.
WESLEY: There are two things about you I'm sure of right now, little man. One is that you can speak English. Pek War sees that Wesley means business.
PER WAR: ( perfect English ) And what's the other?
WESLEY: That my nutsack is bigger than you. Fox snickers.
PER WAR: ( SPITS ) What do you want?
K: A bullet you made killed his father. The bullet maker looks as though he knew a day like this might eventually come. His face falls and he looks.at his feet.
FOX: A bullet you made killed his father. The bullet maker looks as though he knew a day like this might eventually come. His face falls and he looks.at his feet.
PER WAR: I only mold the ammunition. I cannot be responsible for the way it is. Wesley SMASHES him in the face with the butt of his gun, then grabs a long, metal STILETTO-type tool from the work Bullshit. You're as responsible as if you pulled the trigger yourself.
WESLEY: Bullshit. You're as responsible as if you pulled the trigger yourself.
PER WAR: ( WHIMPERS ) I didn't.
ARIV: I'm only going to ask you one question and I want you to think very hard how you want to answer. With that, Wesley sticks the stiletto into Pek War's PEK WAR Relax. The blade is in only an inch or The little man starts jabbering to God in some foreign WESLEY ( CONT'D ) See I've learned a thing or two about human anatomy recently. In fact, this blade is stuck just beneath the coastal cartilage of your tenth rib. Just a little push and it will deflate your lung. That's called a pneumothorax. V Helluva way to go, suffocating in a'room full of fresh air. Plus the sound, the sound of all that oxygen hissing out of your lung. pssssssh, like a balloon at a birthday party. Enough to make a man beg for a second chance.
WESLEY: I'm only going to ask you one question and I want you to think very hard how you want to answer. With that, Wesley sticks the stiletto into Pek War's PEK WAR Relax. The blade is in only an inch or The little man starts jabbering to God in some foreign WESLEY ( CONT'D ) See I've learned a thing or two about human anatomy recently. In fact, this blade is stuck just beneath the coastal cartilage of your tenth rib. Just a little push and it will deflate your lung. That's called a pneumothorax. V Helluva way to go, suffocating in a'room full of fresh air. Plus the sound, the sound of all that oxygen hissing out of your lung. pssssssh, like a balloon at a birthday party. Enough to make a man beg for a second chance.
PEK WAR: Relax. The blade is in only an inch or The little man starts jabbering to God in some foreign WESLEY ( CONT'D ) See I've learned a thing or two about human anatomy recently. In fact, this blade is stuck just beneath the coastal cartilage of your tenth rib. Just a little push and it will deflate your lung. That's called a pneumothorax. V Helluva way to go, suffocating in a'room full of fresh air. Plus the sound, the sound of all that oxygen hissing out of your lung. pssssssh, like a balloon at a birthday party. Enough to make a man beg for a second chance.
OWWW1: Relax. The blade is in only an inch or The little man starts jabbering to God in some foreign WESLEY ( CONT'D ) See I've learned a thing or two about human anatomy recently. In fact, this blade is stuck just beneath the coastal cartilage of your tenth rib. Just a little push and it will deflate your lung. That's called a pneumothorax. V Helluva way to go, suffocating in a'room full of fresh air. Plus the sound, the sound of all that oxygen hissing out of your lung. pssssssh, like a balloon at a birthday party. Enough to make a man beg for a second chance.
WESLEY: Relax. The blade is in only an inch or The little man starts jabbering to God in some foreign WESLEY ( CONT'D ) See I've learned a thing or two about human anatomy recently. In fact, this blade is stuck just beneath the coastal cartilage of your tenth rib. Just a little push and it will deflate your lung. That's called a pneumothorax. V Helluva way to go, suffocating in a'room full of fresh air. Plus the sound, the sound of all that oxygen hissing out of your lung. pssssssh, like a balloon at a birthday party. Enough to make a man beg for a second chance.
PEK WAR: ( DEFENSIVE ) My clients use middlemen, I don't meet them in person, I know so little about Wesley twitches the handle just a bit.
FOX: Wesley, you gotta know something. No matter what kind of training you've done these last few weeks, killing your first, well that's gonna change you forever. Wesley drives for a while. Then.
WESLEY: You know what my foster mother. told me when I was six years old? Fox shakes her head.
FOX: Jesus. Someone needs to find that bitch and set her straight.
WESLEY: So I grew up thinking I was the reason I never knew my parents. But now, to find out, that no, my father didn't give me up because he had died. he gave me up because he was Protecting me. well I guess I want to give him something back.
FOX: Here we are.
WESLEY: Not very discreet, are they? Fox smiles knowingly, and looks up, revealing what Wesley is talking about. On various rooftops we-see FIGURES peering down. looking over the site.
FOX: The others are only backup singers. This is your show. Fox subtly moves her head and figures disappear, crouching down. Just then, out the windshield, they see a MAN wearing a long black overcoat approaching the corner near the newspaper building. Fox's eyes start to dance.
WESLEY: The minute Bellman exposes himself in the open loading dock door he is cut down from inside, his bloody body falling backwards into a newspaper truck parked at the Wesley and Fox join the other two on the dock as screaming WORKERS run from the place.
WAITER: We need a way in there.
ELECTRICIAN: Let's find another door.
WESLEY: He'll be long gone by then.
FOX: ( shaking her head ) He's got the high ground. Wesley sees an unmanned forklift on the dock.
WESLEY: On the pallet. They all jump on the pallet held by the forks of the lift. Wesley throws the machine in reverse and it backs into the warehouse, the four assassins safely crouching on the pallet on the front.
WESLEY: The lowest level is the loading dock, where pallets of newspapers and massive unused paper rolls await.
WESLEY: ( to the Waiter ) Stay here and cover us. There's no angle for him to hit you if you stay here. Wesley points at a scaffolding that runs above the WESLEY ( CONT'D ) Don't let him get up there. And stay clear of the presses! He'll use them however he can.
WAITER: How do you know?
WESLEY: It's what I'd do. With that, Wesley and Fox disappear amongst the The Waiter takes a step back from the press, where over a hundred pounds of paper spins through every second. He sticks his head out to try and keep an eye on that scaffolding. Everything looks clear, until. .shots ring out and a shelf o w a1l o Waiter's head gives way! He turns to see a bunch of cans of spray lubricant falling to the floor. No big deal, until Cross shoots one of them out of the air, causing it to explode! The burning oil covers the Waiter, who SCREAMS and stumbles nearer the printing press.
FOX: Cross races along the scaffolding and disappears into a FOX ( CONT'D ) Keep goin', baby! Take him! Wesley races for the stairs. He is the only one left to chase Cross to level three.
WESLEY: Unafraid, Cross climbs up on a desk on the other side of the office. Without hesitation, Wesley opens fire at Cross. who immediately returns fire. .and his bullets actually collide with Cross's by ets in mid-air!!! The bullets ricochet and take out a COMPUTER SCREEN where someone was playing SOLITAIRE. The two assassins blast away, all while diving and moving over and in the cubicles. Cross has a gun similar to the Imanishis, and they each steer their bullets at each other from sharp angles. Strangely,. the first bullet collision was not blind luck, but the pattern for the battle. They are fighting the same fight, their bullets meeting in the middle, each man using the same techniques at the exact same time. Wesley needs an angle, and spots a DRY ERASE BOARD the words "Action Items" written on it. He fires at it, and his bullets bounce off it at an angle where one of them strikes Cross in the shoulder. THWAP!!! Cross can't believe he's hit but he doesn't have time to flinch. right as Wesley fires again, he turns, barely avoiding the rain of bullets and leaps through a nearby window, smashing the glass out,
CROSS: This takes Wesley aback.
FOX: You did it, baby! Son of a bitch, you did it. You put down motherfucking Wesley looks down and sees some of Cross's blood on his hands from their clench. There is also some on the gun he is holding. ar h d ed crun. Wesley reaches down and takes the other pearl-handled gun from where it dropped and looks over them both.
WESLEY: He said. he said 'pies on the Fox measures him, like she's not sure if he's telling the whole story. Finally, she nods.
FOX: Well. damn, I couldn't be more proud of you, baby! Let's go lay this on Sloan!
WESLEY: Yeah, sure.
FOX: What's wrong?
WESLEY: I think I need.a minute to myself.
FOX: ( UNDERSTANDING ) Sure. It's your first kill. I'll wait for you.
WESLEY: Naah, that's all right. You need to get stitched up. I'll meet you at that Korean place.
FOX: You sure? But he's already walking off. She watches him go, CUT TO: EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT Wesley walks down the street. PEOPLE instinctively get out of his way as he cuts a path down the sidewalk. Then he pulls out what Cross slipped inside his pocket: a beaten-up copy of COUNT OF ONTE CRISTO. In fact, there's no mistake, it's the same copy he had as a kid. Wesley tries to make sense of this as he opens up the cover. printed on the inside in a steady hand are the words: "I left you something." Wesley lowers the book and sees a cheesy guy park a Harley at a curb. He bee-lines for the guy.
WESLEY: You live here? The kid.nods .
KID: You live here? The kid.nods .
WESLEY: You live here? The kid.nods .
ANNA: Come in, Wesley. He stares at her, trying to figure this out. He steps.
ANNA: He's dead, isn't he? There's no point lying to this woman.
WESLEY: Yes, ma'am. She nods knowingly, sadly.
ANNA: He told me if he didn't come back. it would be you who pulled the trigger.
WESLEY: ✓ He killed my father.
ANNA: I think you need to meet someone. she leads Wesley into another room, where a five-year-old boy, plays the floor.
WESLEY: My brother?
ANNA: Half-brother. But both of you, you are both 100 percent your.father's boys. I've seen that from the beginning. Andrew is busy playing with a couple of BLACK TOY BUILDINGS on the floor. Wesley studies the little guy, still confused.
ANNA: would you like some coffee?
WESLEY: I'm okay. Wesley sets the key down on the table.
ANNA: I guess it's not much of an inheritance.
WESLEY: ( STEELY ) He left me more than this. Wesley takes the coat and folds it over his arm.
ANNA: I want you to know that he forgave you before you ever pulled the trigger. He tried to keep you out of it for so Why didn't he just tell me?
WESLEY: Why didn't he just tell me?
ANNA: once they had you. he couldn't risk it unless you were alone. He knew his one shot at telling you might be his last. Her eyes harden a little bit.
WESLEY: I'll be back as soon as this is over.
ANNA: You have family here. Wesley nods, these words meaning so much to him.
FOX: She squints, the setting sunlight nearly blinding her as all she can see is a silhouette.
WESLEY: Skipped the hospital?
FOX: He picked me clean and I don't care much for needles. She blows out a lungful of smoke and watches as it rises toward the ceiling.
WESLEY: I'm all right.
FOX: They got some good shit. Ostrich, chicken. won't fill you up too much if you're watching your calories.
WESLEY: Well, the big man should be here any ( BEAT ) Listen, can I ask you a :question?
FOX: Well, the big man should be here any ( BEAT ) Listen, can I ask you a :question?
WESLEY: ( BEAT ) Listen, can I ask you a :question?
FOX: Baby, you can ask me anything you want. He focuses on her eyes, zeroing in on the pupils.
WESLEY: Did you know Cross was my father?
FOX: Did you know? Closer, closer. tight on those pupils.
WESLEY: Did you know? Closer, closer. tight on those pupils.
FOX: O AW What're you talking about Wesley? Cross killed your father.
O AW: What're you talking about Wesley? Cross killed your father.
FOX: Goddammit, Wesley. She stabs out her cigarette, crushing it on the hot grill so that it SIZZLES.
%AW: You shoulda known better, baby. But he rolls over, taking Fox with him, and now the oven- is burning into her back. With all her strength, she bucks him off and then flips herself backwards off the table. With another kick, she sends the hot table flying at him. It rips free from its wiring, and the nozzle sprays gas out into the restaurant. SSSSSSSSS. Wesley knocks the flying table out of the way, but not before it burns his arm as he blocks it. Spotting his guns, he sprints for them as Fox unleashes a hailstorm of bullets. But he's too damn fast, and he dives across the floor Pete Rose style, sliding to a stop at the precise moment where his hands come u holSling his weapons. In.one fluid motion, he flips back over and EAM! BAM!
WESLEY: You shoulda known better, baby. But he rolls over, taking Fox with him, and now the oven- is burning into her back. With all her strength, she bucks him off and then flips herself backwards off the table. With another kick, she sends the hot table flying at him. It rips free from its wiring, and the nozzle sprays gas out into the restaurant. SSSSSSSSS. Wesley knocks the flying table out of the way, but not before it burns his arm as he blocks it. Spotting his guns, he sprints for them as Fox unleashes a hailstorm of bullets. But he's too damn fast, and he dives across the floor Pete Rose style, sliding to a stop at the precise moment where his hands come u holSling his weapons. In.one fluid motion, he flips back over and EAM! BAM!
FOX: You shoulda known better, baby. But he rolls over, taking Fox with him, and now the oven- is burning into her back. With all her strength, she bucks him off and then flips herself backwards off the table. With another kick, she sends the hot table flying at him. It rips free from its wiring, and the nozzle sprays gas out into the restaurant. SSSSSSSSS. Wesley knocks the flying table out of the way, but not before it burns his arm as he blocks it. Spotting his guns, he sprints for them as Fox unleashes a hailstorm of bullets. But he's too damn fast, and he dives across the floor Pete Rose style, sliding to a stop at the precise moment where his hands come u holSling his weapons. In.one fluid motion, he flips back over and EAM! BAM!
BAM! BAM!!!: Most of Fox's face is blown clean fr her head, and a blood mess s ra s a oss the wall. Wesley leans his head back and closes his eyes, the spume of fire flickering brightly against his lids, the events of the last several hours washing over him.
SLOAN: He knows.
WESLEY: My father. he was working on a plan, I don't know. There was so much he wanted to keep away from us. Wesley moves into Andrew's roan. where the boy is still playing with the black model buildings. Wesley moves over and crouches down next to Andrew.
ANNA: I don't know. There was so much he wanted to keep away from us. Wesley moves into Andrew's roan. where the boy is still playing with the black model buildings. Wesley moves over and crouches down next to Andrew.
WESLEY: Can I see that for a second? The boy hands him the building in his hand. It is painted jet black, except for one corner of the first floor, which is painted red. Wesley looks up at Anna.
WESLEY: ( AWED ) My God, he's been planning it from the ( BEAT ) This is a Fraternity hit. Cross. my fathar. set up Henry Helms as bait, knowing Sloan would use his best men for the job. He was going to take them all Wesley looks at it some more.
ANNA: Do you know the answer to that? Wesley looks up at her, resolve on his face.
WESLEY: No. But I know who does.
NICOLE: ( seeing who it is ) Wesley? Is that you? He looks bruised and battered, but there is a hardness to his eyes.
WESLEY: It's me, Nicole.
NICOLE: What happened to you? Wesley wipes his eyebrow with his thumb, like he's considering what he wants to say next.
WESLEY: I asked you once if you thought I was an observant person. She doesn't understand. but suddenly we.
FOX: ( COYLY ) Who said I was the only sister? Maybe you just haven't met any others yet..
WESLEY: ( playfully back ) Maybe I have and I'm just not telling .and now with the gift of hindsight, we see that Wesley meant what he said, and we.
WESLEY: Sloan didn't just have one person in my office watching me, he had two.
NICOLE: What are you talking about?
WESLEY: What name do you go by? The Intern? He points at her tattoo.
NICOLE: Sloan's not your biggest problem, Yeah? Why's that? She reaches over, slowly, so he knows she's not going to go for a knife. and she turns on a small TELEVISION sitting on the kitchen counter. The screen comes to life, showing an inf mercial for the F ob'e. Nicole shakes her head and. flips up the channels. and now we see what she wanted to show him.
WESLEY: Yeah? Why's that? She reaches over, slowly, so he knows she's not going to go for a knife. and she turns on a small TELEVISION sitting on the kitchen counter. The screen comes to life, showing an inf mercial for the F ob'e. Nicole shakes her head and. flips up the channels. and now we see what she wanted to show him.
REPORTER: .responsible for several recent shootings, including one tonight at this Korean restaurant downtown and another at an outdoor mall. Details are sketchy, but we repeat, if you see this man, please contact.
JANICE: He was aggressive toward me and other employees. a very negative person, extremely negative. I can't even repeat the words that came out of his mouth the day we let him go.
WESLEY: Motherfucker. Dispose of the weapon.
NICOLE: That's right. And the cops were told to watch this place too. You have nowhere to go. He's smarter than you. He'll feed the cops evidence singling you out for every hit the Fraternity has pulled in the last ten years.
WESLEY: ( ignoring her ) I'm only going to ask you one more time. Where can I find him?
NICOLE: You won't get to him. You can't. The cops will be here any second! Wesley reaches over- -and cranks up a gas burner, the menacing flame on high.
WESLEY: Then this is going to get painful She stares at that blue flame, fear in her eyes for the first time. He starts pushing her head toward it, closer and WESLEY ( CONT'D ) Henry Helms. Where is it going down? The first SCREAM from Nicole is lost in.
COP: What the fuck?
K: COP 2 What is it? The first cop points up toward Wesley on the roof.
COP 2: What is it? The first cop points up toward Wesley on the roof.
HELICOPTER PILOT: ( on the radio ) Negative, roof is clean.
SARAH HELMS: The car is here.
HENRY HELMS: ( re: the cops ) What's all this?
LEAD BODYGUARD: We're not taking any chances. He shuts the door for them before climbing behind the steering wheel. The limo starts to make its way down the drive, flanked in front and in back by dark SUBURBANS and the motorcycle EXT. RIVER - DAY Commercial ships cruise up and down a river, under an expansive BRIDGE.
THE GUNSMITH: ( into a radio ) Nothing yet, sir.
SLOAN: Hold until I give the word. He clicks off the radio and looks into his palm, where- e's holding that pearl handled aun, fingering the dried ON A CITY STREET: The suburbans and cops flank the limo as it rolls through the concrete jungle.
SLOAN: ( into the radio ) Here comes the car. Any minute now. Take your positions. Sloan leans out over the edge of his building, gun ready.
GUNSMITH: ( NERVOUSLY ) The CAMERA MOVES TO THE SIDE to show Wesley crouched right behind him, a look of icy determination on his face as he holds the knife in place.
WESLEY: ( GROWLS ) The name is Cross. In the distance, the Helms limo moves on, safely.
WESLEY: Looks like you missed your chance. Now where is Sloan? The Gunsmith feels the edge in Wesley's voice.
GUNSMITH: You don't understand, man. This ain't about Helms. The Intern told you right where to go. He smiles.
WESLEY: ( WHISPERS ) She told me that, too. And with that, he rolls the o0 over of , just as the assassins on the higher rooftops all unleash a hail of bullets. BAM! BAM! BAM! BAM! BAM! The Gunsmith takes a dozen shots, all in the chest, but none of the bullets make it through the Gunsmith's body.
THE BUTCHER: Like I told you. the blade will always live on.
WESLEY: I remember some dumb shit like that coming out of your mouth. Wesley tosses the guns in his pockets and then nulls out the kniZ2 in his shoulder. They charge each other, the blades whizzing and clanging off each other as each tries to gain an edge. The fight spills out the front door, and into.
THE BUTCHER: I can't see!
WESLEY: But you can hear. So hear this: To cut the subclavian artery, hold the knife ice- pick style. Wesley lunges and the Butcher is defenseless to stop it.
THE PHARMACIST: Three on one, mate. You're out of ammo. And you're in a part of the map with no Fraternity stashes.
WESLEY: I'm working off of a different map. With that, the world goes back 12 its natural colorB, and he races for the building, jumping up onto and over a Lexus parked at the curb. The three assassins fire relentlessly at him, but their bullets slam into the car, smashing it to bits. as. . on the other side of it, Wesley goes into a slide just as he reaches that cement block. affixed to it is a small SILVER CROSSI Wesley slaps his hand on the Cross and the cement block mechanically opens, revealing: a new pair of sophisticated MA ISHIS I As his adversaries converge on him, Wesley takes the guns, spins, splits both hands apart and we.
THE PHARMACIST: hitting the Pharmacist on both sides of-his head, before he can even react. Wesley watches a pink spray shoot out from both sides of the Pharmacist's head as he falls to the asphalt, dead. But Wesley's not through, he moves over to the Gardener and rolls him over.
WESLEY: Where is he?
THE GARDENER: Where it started.. BAN! Wesley ends it for the Gardener.
SLOAN: Can't say I don't have a sense of irony. The place I first decided to bring you Wesley is clutching his wounded shoulder with his wounded hand as blood starts to seep out of it in big red drops.
WESLEY: But now you have to dispose of the In some ways it pains me to do so. You 460 are like the son I never had.
SLOAN: In some ways it pains me to do so. You 460 are like the son I never had.
WESLEY: Fuck you. Sloan's eyes narrow.
SLOAN: Fine. Keep your worthless dignity. You're still just the same loser we plucked off the street six weeks ago. Wesley continues to bleed, taking this in. Sloan laughs SLOAN ( CONT'D ) You can't win, Wesley. The Fraternity is everywhere. Even if you kill me others will come from other cities to take my place. You'll be hunted your whole life.
WESLEY: Six weeks ago, I was ordinary and We see now that his healthy hand is inching away from his bleeding arm, reaching into his sleeve.
SLOAN: ( SNARLS ) Go ahead and shoot me, killer. Just like you did your old man. Wesley's finger starts to squeeze the trigger, but then he smiles.
WESLEY: I'm done with this life. Just like my And with that, Wes1gy drops the n out of his h
RECEPTIONIST: You're the new guy, huh?
WESLEY: Just started last week.
RECEPTIONIST: Where'd you move here from?
WESLEY: All over the place, really. Nothing too Well, welcome to the team. Just watch out for Brokaw. He'll stab you in the back first chance he gets. Just then, a harried man, BROKAW, comes storming up.
RECEPTIONIST: Well, welcome to the team. Just watch out for Brokaw. He'll stab you in the back first chance he gets. Just then, a harried man, BROKAW, comes storming up.
BROKAW: Jesus, Connie, don't you have some faxes to get to? The receptionist hurries away, making a face as she does.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
BROKAW: Listen, Jim, I don't want to get started off on the wrong foot here, but we.have numbers to make and if we don't make those numbers, it's my ass on the line. And if my ass gets chewed out by regional, I can guarantee.that your ass is gonna be Purina doggy chow. Now I'm not sure how they ran things. Wesley stares at that mouth zeroing in further and further, until the words become gibberish, just like they did with Janice. Wesley catches himself and snaps out of it, just in time to hear.
WESLEY: Of course.
BROKAW: Good boy. With that, he hurries away, his pants riding so high up his ass that they look like they may burst at any second. Wesley stares up at the clock on his monitor: it reads 11:15. He stands up, stretches, and makes his way to the receptionist's desk. She looks up, bites her lower You want to take a break with me?
WESLEY: You want to take a break with me?
RECEPTIONIST: She stands and they move toward the elevators, waiting for the doors to open.
WESLEY: Well, you'll find there's nothing "usual" about me. They climb in. THE CAMERA PUSHES IN TIGHTER AND TIGHTER on Wesley's WESLEY ( V.O. ) This life is ours, to make of it what we .until it fills the screen, looking just like the shot of Wesley we started with. And then a sly smile spreads across his mug.
