WAR HORSE: Written by Lee Hall & Richard Curtis
FARMER: Come on, easy, girl. Easy, girl. The men hold the mare firmly, but clearly this is a difficult This is a stubborn one, huh?
FARMER 2: This is a stubborn one, huh?
FARMER 3: There we go. Who's a clever girl? Moments later - the summer's sun glints off the wet, sticky hide of the foal ( JOEY ) - red hide, four white socks and a distinctive white cross on its forehead. Soon the creature is attempting its first clumsy steps. It is both awesome and comical to see the new born creature struggle to his feet, but eventually, he succeeds. Title: WAR HORSE
FARMER 2: Easy does it. Easy does it. Come on, steady does it. Unused to being tethered Joey pulls at the rope but the farmers are solid and firm. They gently lead Joey and his mother across the field to the gate and out into the road. The whole road becomes overtaken by a flock of sheep on their way to the market. In the distance we hear the bustle of Market Day.
DAD: Now that's a beauty.
SI EASTON: Forget it, Ted. He's half thoroughbred and not got a day's work in him. ( points to a plow horse next to
JOEY ): Now, there. There's your ticket. In contrast to Joey, the solid and bulky plow horse stands like a rock. But Dad remains fixated on Joey.
DAD: But look at him, Si. Look at that creature.
SI EASTON: Don't be daft. You need something solid to plow a field.
DAD: ( fixed on Joey ) Yeah, but he's something else, that one. The AUCTIONEER announces the start of the auction.
AUCTIONEER: Alright gentlemen - settle down - settle down - horses on my right - men with money in their pockets on my left - it's the perfect combination. Is Fred Goddard here? FRED shouts his reply from the crowd.
FRED: YES! I's here.
AUCTIONEER: Good - more money than sense. Dave Hill?
DAVE: I'm here. Yes!
AUCTIONEER: Bugger off, you tight bastard - you've been coming here for 20 years - never bought so much as a pork scratching. The crowd are loving all this. Dad notices a figure across the ring, LYONS, clearly a man of money. You can see something light up in Dad's eyes - a combination of dislike and alcohol. Joey is led into the auction pen.
DAD: One guinea.
AUCTIONEER: One guinea, one guinea, one YOUNG ANDREW EASTON I thought you needed a plow horse, Mister Any advance on one guinea? Any advance on one guinea? Joey is still trying to get back to his mother. A voice from the crowd pipes up:
AUCTIONEER: Any advance on one guinea? Any advance on one guinea? Joey is still trying to get back to his mother. A voice from the crowd pipes up:
LYONS: Two guineas.
DAD: SI EASTON
SI EASTON: Ted Narracott - it's completely the wrong Lyons whispers to his son, DAVID, 15, next to him. David eyes Joey skeptically.
DAD: Si Easton - I'm not gonna let that bastard see me off.
LYONS: Five guineas.
DAD: SI EASTON
SI EASTON: Oh for the love of.! Joey is straining to get to his mother, the men are pulling him back.
LYONS: Greedy sod thinks he can just buy anybody.
DAD: Greedy sod thinks he can just buy anybody.
SI EASTON: Stop it - he's your landlord - you can't be picking fights with him. Lyons looks over. There is now tension in the crowd as they sense a Battle Royal for the horse.
LYONS: Ten guineas. He smirks at Dad.
SI EASTON: You haven't got the money. Let's go home - let's have a pint.
DAD: Eleven guineas, sir, from as good a man as any in this town. They all look at Lyons in his suit and bowler hat.
AUCTIONEER: Do I hear twelve guineas? Twelve guineas?
SI EASTON: That's top price for a workin' animal. Ted! Save it for the shire!
DAD: There are big days and there are small days. Which will it be?
AUCTIONEER: Do I hear any advance on eleven guineas? All eyes are on Lyons and his son - David is 15, smartly Just let him go, dad, I don't care for him, he's too. jumpy. Lyons isn't listening to David; he's looking hard at Ted.
DAVID LYONS: Just let him go, dad, I don't care for him, he's too. jumpy. Lyons isn't listening to David; he's looking hard at Ted.
LYONS: Shall we say - twenty five? The crowd gasps. This is clearly personal.
SI EASTON: Well, he's got you there. Nice try, Ted.
ANDREW: You were great, Mr N. Gave him a run for his money. But when he looks at Ted, Ted's eyes are locked into the eyes of his rival.
AUCTIONEER: Going, going.
DAD: Thirty. Thirty guineas! Total silence. He stares hard at Lyons. Who simply smiles, raises an eyebrow, tips his hat and walks away. It dawns on Dad that he's won the auction. He breaks into a sweat.
AUCTIONEER: Thirty guineas. Thirty guineas. Going going gone - to Mister Ted Narracott. He bangs his gavel. It's a done deal.
SI EASTON: What have you done, Ted? What have you done? Dad doesn't acknowledge Si. Moments later - Ted stands staring at Joey, who looks back. Ted holds his reins numbly, accepts his receipt from the auction man in a kind of daze. Suddenly, Lyons appears at Dad's shoulder.
LYONS: Quite a beast, there. But what you gonna do with him - on a working farm? I hope you got the rent, Ted. I'll be around for it when it comes due. Dad does not acknowledge Lyons. Lyons smiles and walks away with son David, and his cronies. Si shakes his head at Dad.
SI EASTON: You're a fool, Ted. And our Rosie'll never forgive you.
MRS. NARRACOTT: What have you done? Dad stands shamefaced as Albert - the boy we have already met - runs out of the house to join them.
ALBERT: That's Mooney's colt!
MRS. NARRACOTT: You were supposed to buy a plow horse.
ALBERT: You bought him?
MRS. NARRACOTT: What'd you pay for him? Albert is totally taken by the horse.
DAD: I won't tell you a lie - though I would love to. Thirty guineas.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Thirty guineas! She is stunned. She looks at Ted - and he just nods.
DAD: He's a strong one, Rosie. Look at the way he holds his head!
MRS. NARRACOTT: How the hell are we gonna pull anything with that? Ted - you have to take him back. You have to take him back right now now.
ALBERT: MRS. NARRACOTT You have to get down on your knees and beg for our money back. Joey bridles at the raised voices but Albert takes the rope and tries to calm him.
MRS. NARRACOTT: You have to get down on your knees and beg for our money back. Joey bridles at the raised voices but Albert takes the rope and tries to calm him.
ALBERT: No. No, please don't take him back. Suddenly we see Dad's dejection. He is a man lost.
DAD: We can't take him back till he's broken in.
MRS. NARRACOTT: And how are you gonna train a horse with that leg?
ALBERT: I'll train him.
MRS. NARRACOTT: No, you stay out of this, Albie. You don't know nothing about horses.
ALBERT: Please, Mum. Please let me. I can do it.
DAD: We have to keep him. We've no choice.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Right. Well. you've got one month to break him in or I'm taking him back myself. ( She turns to the house, but then. ) How did you get to thirty - what other fool bid you up that high?
DAD: It was Lyons. Mrs. Narracott turns back towards the house, then stops, dazed, speaking almost to herself.
MRS. NARRACOTT: We're gonna lose everything. After all we've been through - we're gonna lose it all. She turns back to the others - the weight of the mistake heavy on their shoulders - but Albert quickly steps forward.
ALBIE: Don't worry, Mum - I'll raise him - and I'll raise him good.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Well, you better. Go on - get started. See if a child can undo what your fool of a father's done to this family of ours. Mrs. Narracott storms into the house. Albert immediately goes to stroke Joey but the nervous horse draws back uncomfortably. Dad leads him off, drunk and bewildered, across the yard to the barn.
ALBERT: Right. Let's make a start then. As Albert approaches, Joey nervously runs in circles, then stops on a dime, looking at Albert suspiciously.
ALBERT: Whoa. I want you to stay there, Joey. Stay. That's it. Good boy. That's it, you've got it. Of course when Albert walks away, Joey follows. A game of "Grandma's footsteps" ensues as Albert patiently places Joey then walks away.
ANDREW: Hey, look at him, Albie. He's playing "Grandma's Footsteps." Albert patiently leads Joey back to his starting position.
ALBERT: Right, come on, Joey. Back you go. Come on. Back you go.
ANDREW: Good boy. Good.
ALBERT: Come now, Joey. Come on. Albert whistles like an owl. Joey stands completely still.
ANDREW: Don't think he fancies your owls. Albert walks back to Joey, frustrated.
ALBERT: No, I read it in a story. It's how the Indians used to summon their He gently strokes Joey's nose.
ANDREW: My dad had a dog who stayed when you called him. He used to run up behind you when you weren't looking, and uh.
ALBERT: He's not a dog. He's just puzzling it through.
ANDREW: Brilliant. Look at you. With the basis established, Albert begins to train Joey to react to the owl whistle without his prompting. It's not all easy going - sometimes Albert makes progress, sometimes not. QUICK MONTAGE - Mrs. Narracott fills a bucket at the pump, then promptly spills it when Joey trots past her in response to an owl whistle. She calls off, frustrated.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Dad heads out to the fields with a rake on his shoulder. There's an owl call and Joey trots past him in the background. Dad sees Albert welcome Joey by the haystacks, stroking his nose affectionately. Dad walks on, his expression inscrutable. Joey trots up a path, pursuing another owl call. After several more calls, he still can't spot Albert, until he cranes his neck up and sees Albert sitting in a nearby tree. Albert laughs.
LYONS: There's only fifteen here.
DAD: The rest will come.
LYONS: You know by rights I could take this farm back today, don't you? And I'm a great believer in my rights.
DAD: It will come.
LYONS: If you drank less beer and bought fewer horses you might be able to look your landlord in the eye, Narracott. Lyons begins loading up his ledger into his bag.
DAD: I said I'll pay you. We got to plant the bottom field.
LYONS: Bottom field's rock hard. Only stones down No, we're going to plow it. Just give me `til the autumn. I'll pay every penny I owe you. With interest.
DAD: No, we're going to plow it. Just give me `til the autumn. I'll pay every penny I owe you. With interest.
LYONS: How you going to plow it? Not with that fancy animal of yours?
DAD: He'll do it.
LYONS: You'll not get that one in a harness, let alone pulling a plow. Even drunk on a Tuesday night, you know that. And I can't wait for the money - there's a war coming. Dad stands up from his chair, resolute.
DAD: I promise you that field will be plowed. We'll plant it with turnips. And the money will be yours when harvest comes. Mrs. Narracott interjects, desperate.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Please, sir. Please. Lyons takes his time. He looks at them both - Ted and Rosie, almost beaten.
LYONS: Very well - if that fancy plows that field I'll give you till October to set things Lyons heads for the door, but Albert stands in his way.
ALBERT: What if he doesn't?
LYONS: I'll take the horse on the day he fails.
ALBERT: No, please. Sir, you can't do that.
LYONS: Now, now, now, lad. What - are you bladdered as well?! Ted Narracott - I got you down in my book! Albert knows he has to back down. Lyons walks past him and leaves with David and his cronies.
ALBERT: You can't harness him.
DAD: He's got to be collared. Dad starts to grapple with Joey desperately flailing in an attempt to get the harness onto Joey. Joey is completely confused and frightened.
ALBERT: No, you can't. Look, you're scaring him, Dad. You're scaring him. He.
DAD: He's got to plow!
ALBERT: He won't be able to do it - he's too young - he's not even been backed yet.. Joey rears up and kicks Dad. Who falls to the ground.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Albert grabs Joey's bridle. Joey wrestles with Albert.
ALBERT: It's alright, boy. It's alright. It's alright. It's alright. Dad is mad with anger and frustration - and in pain. He staggers to his feet and leaves. Albert calms Joey down. Mrs. Narracott returns the harness to its hook.
MRS. NARRACOTT: I knew this would happen soon as I laid eyes on him.. But then she notices Dad has returned. He has a gun.
DAD: He's worth nothing to me! If he won't take the collar, he's not worth a damn thing!
ALBERT: He grabs the rifle, but Dad shoves him away.
DAD: Move aside. Dad raises the rifle, but Albert wrestles for it again.
ALBERT: Dad. Stop. Furious with frustration Dad throws Albert to the ground and takes aim at the horse. Mrs. Narracott quickly pulls the gun aside.
MRS. NARRACOTT: You shoot that horse we have nothing.
NO!: Dad pauses his finger just in time. Albert gently holds the barrel of the gun. Speaks calmly.
ALBERT: You were right what you said, Dad. "He'll do it," you told Lyons, "He'll plow that field." And he will! You'll see. He'll show you. We'll show you. We'll get it done. Dad looks at him, frozen. Mrs. Narracott eases the gun away from him -
MUM: Let go. Let go. - and hands it to Albert, telling him -
MRS. NARRACOTT: Here, here. Some days are best forgotten. Today ain't one of them. Come on. They exit the stable together, leaving Joey in his stall.
ALBERT: How are you today, Joey? I don't know much about life, boy, but I do know that there are big days and there are small days. And most days are small days, and, well, they don't matter much to anyone - but this - well, this is a big one. This is our big day. Well, it's cold out there. So I'm going to take this off - ( he takes off his coat ) Well, if it's tough for you - it should be tough for me, too.
SI EASTON: Too large, too rocky, matted with grass roots. Even a sturdy plow horse'd never manage it alone.
ANDREW: Yet he will, I say.
SI EASTON: You'd swear he'd sprout wings and fly if Albert had told you so. ( smiling at his son: ) It's a fine thing, loyal to your mate. Even if he is a bit barmy. A team of two might manage, given a month and good weather. They're interrupted by the honk of a horn as Lyons and David pull up in a car. Lyons and David get out. Their driver remains inside.
LYONS: Ted too squeamish to watch, is he?
SI EASTON: `Course he's watching. Si nods in the direction of the house. Albert steadies Joey and starts to tie on the heavy plow. It just seems too big and bulky for Joey's sleek frame. Albert sets Joey right and fixes the plow. Lyons, David, Si, and Andrew walk towards Dad, who looks on anxiously from a nearby hedgerow. Lyons gestures at David to stay back and walks over to Ted alone. He stands beside him and begins to talk gently.
LYONS: Well, you've raised him up a true Narracott, Ted, picture of his father, he is: not a dollop of ordinary sense but that thick stubbornness that'll lead him to insist on the impossible. Down in the field, Albert continues to prep the plow.
ALBERT: See Joey - I got the collar, too! Albert gently snaps the reins. Joey doesn't move, confused by the whole affair.
LYONS: You'd be better off startin' at the top of the hill and goin' down! Gravity's the only friend you're gonna have today, young lad.
ALBERT: Walk on, Joey! Walk on! Come on, Joey, walk on. Walk on, boy. At the house, Mrs. Narracott opens an upstairs window to look on, anxiously. Ted, standing alone by the fence, only looks at Albert.
TED: ( TO HIMSELF: )
LYONS: Bravo! You've reached the top of the hill! Off you go again, boy! You'll make even better time comin' down!! He continues past Dad, laughing. INTERCUT - Mrs. Narracott looks on from the house. He glances back at her. Her face is full of angry concern for their son. Townsfolk begin arriving, climbing the hill to the lower Ted looks down, ashamed. Mrs. Narracott looks back at Albert, mortified, bruised, setting the plow right again. Mrs. Narracott moves away from the window, takes a seat, and picks up her knitting. Later - Albert has made no progress. Joey is moving, but only in a useless circle.
ALBERT: Good boy. Good lad. Good lad. Now walk on. Good boy. More townsfolk clamor to the fence. Andrew calls out.
ANDREW: Albie, we're all with ya! Albert tries to encourage him forward but Joey still isn't pulling sufficiently. The plow skips uselessly over the surface stones.
LYONS: Look look look! The plow hasn't even cut As Albert struggles with the plow, he sees Dad walking up the hill behind the spectators. He doesn't even turn to his son.
ALBERT: Do you know - I believe we can do it, Joey. I knew when I first saw you that you'd be the best of us. That's why he bought you. He knows you've all the courage he never had. I knew when I first saw you that you'd be the one who'd save us. The plow skips and Albert falls. Joey's legs buckle and he goes to his knees. Albert rushes to his side.
LYONS: You've got no chance, lad. He'll not turn over half an acre. Give it up now. You've done well. You've tried hard. You're more of a man than your Albert examines the collar - he sees it is ripping into Joey's flesh. He grabs his shirt, tears a piece off it, tenderly folds it and puts it between Joey's shoulder and the Come on now, Mr. Lyons, that's a bit rough, isn't it?
SI EASTON: Come on now, Mr. Lyons, that's a bit rough, isn't it?
LYONS: ( A SHRUG: )
NEIGHBOUR: Your wool.
ALBERT: Now, boy! You've got to do it, Joey. You don't know, so I'm gonna have to do the knowing for you when the rest of our lives depend on this! So get set to pull - and pull straight! And pull hard! He races back to the plow and sets himself.
ANDREW: Walk on! Walk on! Walk on! Walk on, Joey! At the fence, Mrs. Narracott looks on in amazement. Albert notices a large rock in their path. Andrew sees it, Go around it!!
ALBERT: Whoa, Joey! Whoa, Joey! Joey! Joey, whoa whoa whoa! Joey, stop! You'll break the blade -
ANDREW: Will you look at you? Mrs. Narracott looks very happy, a smile breaking slowly across her face. The crowd begins to return. Lyons notices and looks out from his car - sees the plow digging through the field. Annoyed at the progress Albert's making, he gets out of his car and walks over to Mrs. Narracott. With great disdain he
LYONS: I'd not let a child of mine slip in the mud alongside a plow blade. He could lose a foot! Mrs. Narracott brandishes her knitting needles, backing him You'll likelier lose an eye, Mr. Lyons, if you carry on prating at me how to manage my son! Or my plow, or my horse, or my field, or my farm! Dad sits nearby, watching this exchange with silent approval. Lyons stares at her, gape-mouthed, as she turns her attention back to Albert.
ROSIE NARRACOTT: You'll likelier lose an eye, Mr. Lyons, if you carry on prating at me how to manage my son! Or my plow, or my horse, or my field, or my farm! Dad sits nearby, watching this exchange with silent approval. Lyons stares at her, gape-mouthed, as she turns her attention back to Albert.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Come on, Albie! Push on through! The rain becomes torrential. Lyons turns towards the car - gestures, frustrated, to his driver, who runs forward with the umbrella to shield his boss from the rain. David remains on the running board, watching Albert plowing. The plow speeds through the earth. The boy and the horse are working as one. It is a moment of triumph.
ANDREW: Get it done, Albie! Get it done!
ROSIE: Oh, my pair of fools. My mighty As the others help Albert up, Ted tends to Joey. He looks over to his son and, after a moment, removes his cap and slightly bows his head. The others stagger away, supporting Albert, and Ted pats the horse and gently begins to unbuckle the harness.
ROSIE: You're as battered and bloodied as he is.
ALBERT: And where's Dad?
ROSIE: Still in the bottom field.
ALBERT: Stumbling about, I suppose.
ROSIE: It's not the drink, Albert, that makes him stumble -
ALBERT: ( ABRUPTLY )
ROSIE: Well, so might you if you'd been where he's been, seen what he's Well, he don't talk to me about it.
ALBERT: Well, he don't talk to me about it.
ROSIE: He don't talk about it because he can't. There aren't words for some things. Come here. Rosie stalks over to a pile of broken equipment in a corner of the stables. She rummages until she finds a waterstained brown paper parcel tied with yarn. She brushes away some mouse turds.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Here. It's his campaign pennant. He were Sergeant, Seventh Battalion, Imperial Then with great care she unfolds the sash to reveal two silver medals. The first, with the profile of Victoria, hangs from a red, blue and orange ribbon.
ROSIE: And that is the Queen's South Africa Medal. Every man who fought in the Boer War got one of those. But She holds up the other medal, hanging from a red and black That's the Distinguished Conduct She hands Albert the Distinguished Conduct Medal. He takes it, astonished.
ALBERT: Not dad's?
ROSIE: Well it ain't mine, dear. He got that after the fighting at Transvaal. After he'd been hurt, and he'd saved some other lads, and well. I don't know what else, he won't tell me either. But the first day he got home he just. tossed them out. First day he could walk, he threw `em straight in the dustbin, and wouldn't hear a word I said not to. Albert nods, looking at the medal and campaign pennant. She takes the medal back, puts it in the sash, and begins to wrap it again.
ALBERT: ( CONFUSED: )
ROSIE: Well, whether or not you think you'd do the same thing as him. Think how brave he is for refusing to be She heads back to Albert, pennant in hand.
ALBERT: ( SOFTLY: )
DAVID: Um, I'm the only boy that drives in the village. No one else drives but Oh, yeah?
YOUNG WOMAN: Oh, yeah?
DAVID: That's right and this is my dad's car. You're lucky that you're in it. I'm not normally allowed to drive it `cause it's so - Albert urges Joey to go faster, till they're neck and neck beside the car, racing it. David Lyons looks to see Albert and Joey running alongside his car. He feigns disinterest. Albert glances at David, but he's much more interested in the very pretty young woman seated next to David, her hands trying to control her hair, flying in the wind. Forgetting himself momentarily, Albert stares at her, dazzled. The woman turns to David:
YOUNG WOMAN: Is he a friend of yours? She smiles at Albert, encouraging him. David Lyons, annoyed, pushes the accelerator down, and the car edges ahead of Joey. But not for long. The sound of the acceleration and Albert's eagerness to impress the young woman make Joey go faster, and again he moves out ahead of the car. The young woman grins at Albert. Up ahead Albert sees that the wall alongside of which he's been racing turns the corner, presenting him and Joey with an obstacle. Albert encourages Joey to go faster.
ALBERT: Come on, boy, let's show her how to They head right for the wall, but at the very last moment, Joey balks and comes to a dead standstill, sending Albert sailing over the wall. Back in the car, the girl gasps and covers her mouth, concerned. David says nothing, but allows himself a small On the other side of the wall, Albert stands a bit battered, but unfazed.
MRS. NARRACOTT: Shoo, Harold. Shoo, shoo, shoo! The thunder cracks again and.
ALBERT: We can try planting something else, or we could hire ourselves out to Uncle Bob. Dad doesn't answer. He shakes his head and limps away.
MRS. NARRACOTT: What we gonna do?
DAD: I used to believe that God gave each man his fair portion of bad luck. I don't feel that any more. I've had more than my share.
ROSE: Well, I might hate you more - but I'll never love you less. Then somewhere in the distance, an unfamiliar sound.
MOTORBIKE RIDER: It's war! The bike comes to a stop in the market place. The rider takes off his goggles. Men of the village start to flock around the machine, with great curiosity.
ALBERT: Look smart, Joey lad, it's the Tavistock Albert opens the doors and stops dead. He looks at the empty EXT./ INT. KITCHEN / YARD. DAY. Albert runs out. He rushes into the kitchen. His mother stares out the window. She has been crying.
ALBERT: What has he done with him? She says nothing, but her face gives everything away. Albert in a panic turns and runs out into the lane. Mrs. Narracott tears up again.
RECRUITING OFFICER: Last name first. First name, middle name, last. CAPTAIN NICHOLLS is in the square inspecting Joey, knowledgably. He is a handsome, attractive, modest, upper class man. Dad stands beside him. He checks Joey's teeth, his feet and finally, looks him straight in the eye.
DAD: Take my word for it - finest horse in the parish. Goes like a racer, strong, decent, very fine. Captain Nicholls has immediately connected with Joey and puts him at his ease. SAM PERKINS, a tough sergeant, is physically inspecting Joey.
SAM PERKINS: No curbs, no splints, good feet and teeth. He's as sound as a bell, And how much are you charging, sir - for this strong, decent, and very fine animal?!
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: And how much are you charging, sir - for this strong, decent, and very fine animal?!
DAD: CAPTAIN NICHOLLS
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I'll give you twenty and not a penny more.
DAD: Twenty is no good to me, Captain. Thirty five and he's yours.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I don't even know how he rides.
DAD: Oh, he rides. Splendidly. You'll be astonished. I promise you that. ( his heart's in his throat, fighting back
GRIEF ): Finest horse in all of Devon. Finest horse I ever seen.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Thank you. Albert races towards Joey. Ted grabs him. Albert fights to get free. He looks at his father in anger and betrayal.
ALBERT: You can't! You can't, he's mine! I trained Albert is hysterical.
DAD: Albert is hysterical.
ALBERT: You can't have him. He's my horse, sir.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I'm afraid it's too late, lad. I've just paid thirty guineas for him.
ALBERT: ( TO TED: )
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I'm sorry. Albert snaps to attention.
ALBERT: Well, if Joey's going, I'm going, too. I'm volunteering.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I see. What's your name, lad?
ALBERT: Albert, sir.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: And how old are you, Albert?
ALBERT: Nineteen, sir.
CAPTAIN NICHOLS: Is that the truth?
ALBERT: No sir. But, but I look nineteen and I'm bigger than most nineteen-year- olds, sir! And I'm strong, sir! And I.I'm not afraid of anything.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I don't doubt your qualifications, Albert, but the law is very clear about the proper age for soldiering, and your father's done what he had to do. You know that. Thirty guineas isn't nearly enough to purchase a horse as fine as your Joey, I know that. But it's all I've got. Will you lease him to me, Albert, to be my own mount? ( he removes his cap,
EARNEST ): I promise you, man to man, that I'll look after him as closely as you've done, I'll respect him and all the care that you've taken with him. And if I can - I'll return him to your Albert looks at him. Although Nicholls speaks with authority he has a kindness which Albert recognizes.
ALBERT: It's all right, boy. But at that moment, Sam Perkins pulls Joey away:
SAM PERKINS: All right, turn it in, eh? That's enough. He's a horse, not a dog. Now, on your way.
DAD: Do you want to lose the farm, Rose?
ROSIE: It's the way you did it.
DAD: But we're at war.
ROSIE: Aren't we just. She looks at Albert. Implacable. Forever.
ALBERT: - and tucks the pennant into Joey's halter.
SAM PERKINS: Here now, I've told you - sling your But Nicholls intervenes from his car.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Let him be, Perkins.
ALBERT: This isn't the end. This isn't the end, my brother. I, Albert Narracott, solemnly swear we will be together again. Wherever you are, I will find you. And I will bring you And then they are past him, leaving him behind. As Perkins leads Joey across a stone bridge, Albert watches from the bank of the stream. Joey balks one last time -
SAM PERKINS: Whoa. Steady, steady. Steady now, come on. Walk on! Walk on now, come on! - then Perkins leads him away, leaving Albert behind. The very last recruits leave the village - leaving the debris of this army's visit strewn on the square. Like the debris of a party you are already beginning to regret.
GROOM: Whoa whoa whoa. Easy easy. He bucks, throwing the groom to the ground, and gallops away. But Perkins cuts him off, grabs his halter, and jerks him back to attention.
SAM PERKINS: Whoa whoa whoa, Joey! Stop muckin' about, you hear? Yer in the army now, son. He pushes him into his stall, next to Major Stewart's horse, a magnificent black stallion, TOPTHORN.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Gently, Perkins. I don't want to sour him.
SAM PERKINS: There'll be nothing gentle about the war, sir. And there'll be nothing gentle about this one either!
CHARLIE WAVERLY: Scares the living daylights out of me.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: CHARLIE WAVERLY
CHARLIE WAVERLY: Perkins. Glad he's on our side. They're both joined by a tall, confident officer, MAJOR JAMIE STEWART. He sizes up Joey.
MAJOR STEWART: Not bad. Not bad at all. Still not a patch on my Topthorn.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I wouldn't be so sure. I think he's got potential. He's certainly got the bit between his teeth.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: I actually think my Blenheim is faster than the pair of them.
MAJOR STEWART: Clear off! He suddenly turns from the joking into the efficient senior officer he is.
SAM PERKINS: Yes, sir!
MAJOR STEWART: No excuses, no mistakes - every horse groomed and fit for presentation! I want a full practice charge tomorrow.
SAM PERKINS: They leave.
MAJOR STEWART: Thought you two had bottled out.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: As if. Nicholls looks at his friend tolerantly.
MAJOR STEWART: All right, then, let's see what you two jokers are made of, shall we?
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: This is what quiet confidence looks like.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: I'll wait for you two at the Duke of York. Nicholls and Stewart and Charlie prepare themselves for the charge. Joey and Topthorn size up to one another.
MAJOR STEWART: Over to you, Captain Nicholls. Topthorn bristles at Joey. Everyone is highly charged. The competition between Stewart and Nicholls seems to have been absorbed between the horses. Topthorn and Joey square up for the practice charge like two athletes before a race.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Nicholls raises his sword. It glints in the summer air. It seems to hang there forever. Every man follows suit. Topthorn and Joey glance at each other, ready to charge.
MAJOR STEWART: Whoa. Whoa. Nicholls laughs, grinning.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Nice of you to turn up. The horses are nose to nose, snorting, we sense the heat, the exertion. Topthorn and Joey are brought together by the effort. We sense Topthorn's newly minted respect for Joey. And Joey is no soft touch - he slightly holds his head up in victory, letting Topthorn know that he knows he won. The other horses come charging in. There is a real sense of achievement and congratulation amongst the regiment.
MAJOR STEWART: He's got speed.I'll give him that. But has he got stamina?
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: He has everything. The two men enjoy the moment of rivalry and the exhilaration of it all. The two horses, face to face rub against each other for the first time. A bond has been formed.
MAJOR STEWART: What are you up to?
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I'm writing a letter.
MAJOR STEWART: With a picture in it?
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: It's to the boy who owned Joey. I want to show him how wonderful he's looking.
MAJOR STEWART: Before we take him away across the Channel to face a million Germans guns.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Yes. Before that.
MAJOR STEWART: 4 a.m. start tomorrow - travelling with the Dragoon Guards and the Royals. Transport detachment - they'll need to be at the docks at 5 am. Check all kit. Battle orders: no polishing - buttons, helmet buckles, stirrup irons - let `em all go dull. I want nothing to flash in the sun and give us away.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Of course. As Stewart leaves, he passes Charlie. He casually acknowledges him.
MAJOR STEWART: CHARLIE WAVERLY CAPTAIN NICHOLLS
CHARLIE WAVERLY: CAPTAIN NICHOLLS
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Charlie checks his new cap in the mirror.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: What do you think of the cap? He shows the bright red lining to Nicholls.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: I'm not sure it's going to make a lot of difference to the Germans.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: Oh, I don't know about that. Think about it - you're a Boche, just working out which of two chaps to shoot - and you thought - "Good Lord - one of them really is wearing a very stylish cap indeed!" You might shoot the other one instead.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Or, alternatively, think - "I fancy that cap" and kill you first of all. Pause. Charlie removes the cap.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: Hadn't thought of that. Nicholls returns to his sketch.
MAJOR STEWART: CAPTAIN NICHOLLS
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: SGT. MAJOR SINGH About six hundred. Infantry.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Twice our size.
MAJOR STEWART: In regiments of horse and men, the advantage is ours.
MAJOR STEWART: Right. Good. So - today it is. Charlie - tell the men.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: Salisbury formation?
MAJOR STEWART: Salisbury formation. We'll charge through them and secure the ground SGT. MAJOR SINGH The grass to the left is taller than we are - it's perfect cover.
MAJOR STEWART: Excellent work, Sergeant Major. Time spent on reconnaissance is rarely wasted. As Stewart departs:
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Thank you, Singh.
MAJOR STEWART: Not having scruples, are you, Jim?
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: No. I understand the surprise is everything. But if it must be done, let's do it quickly. Nicholls notices Charlie nervously attending his horse.
CHARLIE WAVERLY: Never been better. Literally, never We worry for him - he is afraid. Stewart rides through the lines astride Topthorn.
MAJOR STEWART: Prepare to mount! Mount! As the cry is echoed throughout the regiment, Nicholls accepts Joey from an attending soldier.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Thank you, Standley.
MAJOR STEWART: Gentleman. It is an honour to ride beside you. Make the Kaiser rue the day he dared to cross swords with us. Let every man make himself, his King, his country, and his fallen comrades proud! Be brave. Fear God. Honor the King!
TROOPERS: ( in unison shout ) Fear God. Honor the King!
MAJOR STEWART: Draw swords! The men draw their sabres in silence. The birds chirping, Then Nicholls just turns to his two friends and almost Good luck, my friends. He pats Joey's side. And then.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: Good luck, my friends. He pats Joey's side. And then.
MAJOR STEWART: Forward, to walk! Walk.march! The regiment begins moving through the field.
GERMAN SOLDIER: Topthorn and Joey race each other like a rerun of their practice on Salisbury Plain. The swords and uniforms glint in the sun, the German troops look terrified - some run in panic, others prepare to stand their ground.
CAPTAIN NICHOLLS: The British head in for the kill, the men scream battle cries with sheer exhilaration. We see the horses at close quarters running with all their might. Nicholls and Stewart yell as they approach the enemy. The surprise attack is a huge success. The first row of unprepared Germans are falling. The regiment sweeps through the encampment, cutting down soldiers and driving the rest in a panicked retreat to the tree line. But then we see, in the shadows of the forest behind the
CHARGE!: The British head in for the kill, the men scream battle cries with sheer exhilaration. We see the horses at close quarters running with all their might. Nicholls and Stewart yell as they approach the enemy. The surprise attack is a huge success. The first row of unprepared Germans are falling. The regiment sweeps through the encampment, cutting down soldiers and driving the rest in a panicked retreat to the tree line. But then we see, in the shadows of the forest behind the
CAMP: A machine gun. No, a line of machine guns - at least twenty guns, sandbagged apart - the logical, new, modern defence of a garrison. In an instant, the fleeing Germans have manned the guns. All now firing.
GERMAN OFFICER: ( OUTRAGED )
GERMAN OFFICER: If they're injured, shoot them.
GERMAN OFFICER: The others you round up and take to base camp - they will pull guns.
THIRD OFFICER: You'll never get fancy horses like these to pull guns.
GERMAN OFFICER: Then shoot them also. Gunther, the young private, now standing behind them, Sir - perhaps we could use some of them with the ambulances - to get the injured men off the field.
GUNTHER: Sir - perhaps we could use some of them with the ambulances - to get the injured men off the field.
GERMAN OFFICER: Will they take the harness?
GUNTHER: I'd like to try, sir. The officers move away - that's enough talk about horses. CUT ON - Gunther is now with Joey and Topthorn. Near a wooden ambulance - which is like a giant wagon to carry humans. He is with MICHAEL, a very young soldier, his brother - possibly as young as 14.
MICHAEL: It won't work - they're cavalry
GUNTHER: Let's try.
MICHAEL: You won't get the harness on.
GUNTHER: Come on, Michael. Topthorn balks violently.
MICHAEL: Gunther! It's hopeless - we can't help them. And suddenly Joey moves up and presents himself, with his strange self assurance and self sacrifice. And instinct for He sniffs the harness and places his head through it, which helps to calm Topthorn enough that Gunther can slip the collar onto the big black horse. Gunther turns to Joey, Well, well, look at you. Whoever taught you this has just saved your Gunther spots the red ribbon in Joey's saddle, removes it, folds it, and places it in his pocket. Later - Gunther and Michael are returning from the battlefield with Topthorn and Joey, pulling an ambulance with British and German wounded. Amongst the wounded, we see a hand gripping a battered, silk lined hat. It is Waverly, wounded but alive.
GUNTHER: Well, well, look at you. Whoever taught you this has just saved your Gunther spots the red ribbon in Joey's saddle, removes it, folds it, and places it in his pocket. Later - Gunther and Michael are returning from the battlefield with Topthorn and Joey, pulling an ambulance with British and German wounded. Amongst the wounded, we see a hand gripping a battered, silk lined hat. It is Waverly, wounded but alive.
SI EASTON: Hello the farm!
ROSIE: ( looking up, wiping her
BROW ): Hello, Si Easton! Albert passes carrying a crate laden with turnips, but pulls up short when he hears:
SI EASTON: I was at the post office and while I was there, Mrs. Allen said a parcel had come for Albert, from the, from the, from over there - and I thought I could go up that way in the morning. And - here it is.
ALBERT: Well, who'd be sending me a parcel over there?
DAD: Well, open it and see. Albert opens the parcel and pulls out a leather sketchbook.
ALBERT: It's a sketchbook. ( gasp of realization ) That's Captain Nicholls' sketchbook! See that? That's a picture of Joey!
ROSIE: It's a picture of Joey. Well, I And there's a letter.
ALBERT: ( EXCITED )
ROSIE: Well, go on then, go on.
ALBERT: All right.
ROSIE: You weren't to know it was bad news.
ALBERT: He was riding Joey when he died.
ROSIE: You don't know that he was riding "In action," it says. Everybody falls silent. Albert goes to the fence and looks down at the sketches of Joey. Rosie looks at her son, her heart breaking for him. Dad returns to the harvest without a word. Albert looks off to the horizon and - over there.
ALBERT: "In action," it says. Everybody falls silent. Albert goes to the fence and looks down at the sketches of Joey. Rosie looks at her son, her heart breaking for him. Dad returns to the harvest without a word. Albert looks off to the horizon and - over there.
GUNTHER: They're pushing through?
GUNTHER: Yes, sir. Perhaps I can keep my brother here with me, he's also very good with horses.
MICHAEL: It's all right, Gunther. Gunther can't really speak. Michael is just a boy.
GUNTHER: You are not going. I'll tell them you are only fourteen, that you're a Father signed me in. He knew my age -and so do they.
MICHAEL: Father signed me in. He knew my age -and so do they.
GUNTHER: Of course she did. I just wasn't listening. But you need to listen now! I promised her, I made her a solemn promise, that you would be safe with me. With me, Michael!! He leans close to Michael, talking in almost a whisper.
MICHAEL: Then what? Michael carries on with his packing.
GUNTHER: I'm giving this to you. For luck. Gunther ties the pennant to the back of Michael's pack as he forms up.
GERMAN OFFICER: Get back in line! Line!
MICHAEL: I'm hungry. Did you bring food?
GUNTHER: I'm sorry. Michael fingers the pennant on Joey's reins. Then.
MICHAEL: Will Father be ashamed?
GUNTHER: He will pretend to be. Maybe at first he will be. But in the end, he will be glad.
MICHAEL: And us? What about us? Gunther looks at him - but doesn't reply. As Michael removes
GUNTHER: What about the women?
MICHAEL: What about the women?
GUNTHER: Not as good as the food.
MICHAEL: Because.they've eaten too much of the food?
GUNTHER: You are too young for war. And you're too young for women! Gunther laughingly pushes him over.
MICHAEL: I don't feel so young. Not anymore.
GUNTHER: Go to sleep - we have a big night of riding ahead. Goodnight, Michael. He jokingly strokes Michael's cheek. Michael swats him away, but as he settles in the hay:
MICHAEL: Night night, Gunther.
GERMAN SOLDIER: Hei! In die windmühle! The boys spring up, speaking in terrified whispers.
GUNTHER: Go, go, go.
MICHAEL: They race up a nearby ladder, but Michael stumbles against a table, upsetting some gear. It clatters loudly. They cower as they hear boots tromping up the steps outside. Then the windmill doors are thrown open, pinning them in the bright headlights of the vehicles. As they're marched out, we see what they see: A German car - two motorcycles. Six Germans, including the officer who was in charge of them.
GUNTHER: Yes, sir.
GUNTHER: A promise. The officer accepts this grimly, nods.
EMILIE: He heads towards the side-board, dumps the two bags and lifts the first handful of fruits on to the counter. She empties her clean berries into a bowl. Notes the explosions outside.
GRANDFATHER: The wind plays tricks with the noise - it's moving away from us.
EMILIE: I can hear it, Grandpére, and there is no wind. You shouldn't lie to me.
GRANDFATHER: Here. There is no wind here. But over there - a wind so strong it will lift you off the ground.
EMILIE: You lie about everything. You say you aren't worried but it's clear you are. I know the war is approaching but you say, "Oh, it's just a trick of the wind." He retrieves a bottle of medicine from the mantle.
GRANDFATHER: ( SMILING )
EMILIE: You started lying when Mama and Papa went away. She pours a load of sugar into a bowl with the fruit.
GRANDFATHER: The truth is - He feeds her a spoonful of the medicine.
EMILIE: If you tell me the truth about the war, I will tell you the truth about the big horses I've been keeping in the windmill.
GRANDFATHER: ( standing, putting his hands on his hips ) Now - who is the one telling lies!
GRANDFATHER: In the windmill?
EMILIE: Yes. They were standing in the windmill waiting for Don Quixote. This is François ( Joey ) and this is Claude ( Topthorn ).
GRANDFATHER: I named them after two boys who broke my heart last Summer.
EMILIE: I named them after two boys who broke my heart last Summer.
GRANDFATHER: They must belong to someone. Horses like this don't just appear from a Yes - I know, Grandpére. They are not unicorns - so I will be fair and wait one day.
EMILIE: Yes - I know, Grandpére. They are not unicorns - so I will be fair and wait one day.
GRANDFATHER: Emilie. Emilie.
EMILIE: And if no one comes to get them by night-time, then they belong to me.
GRANDFATHER: Emilie. Look at me. You cannot Mother used to tell me how my bones would give way with the slightest bump or fall.
EMILIE: Mother used to tell me how my bones would give way with the slightest bump or fall.
GRANDFATHER: Yes. That's right. So it is She kisses his cheek
EMILIE: It will only be settled when I decide which one to ride first.
GRANDFATHER: But it's - Over my dead body!
EMILIE: At least I won't have long to wait.
EMILIE: ( TO JOEY )
EMILIE: He doesn't think we can do it. But we will show him, won't we? Emilie unfolds the ladder beside Joey and shakily starts climbing to the top of it.
GRANDFATHER: You'll kill yourself. Emilie turns, and there, blocking the hurdle, now standing hands on hips, is Grandfather.
EMILIE: Only if you get in my way to make me Oh please, come off the ladd A SOUND from far down the road. Grandfather looks. Emilie turns to look too. Two trucks led by a German motorcycle are approaching the farm.
GRANDFATHER: Oh please, come off the ladd A SOUND from far down the road. Grandfather looks. Emilie turns to look too. Two trucks led by a German motorcycle are approaching the farm.
GERMAN OFFICER: Halt! Und aussteigen! The people - 20 of them, all seeming to be poor French peasants, mainly women, move out of the truck. As they walk past, they avoid the eye of the Grandfather, who approaches the soldiers.
GRANDFATHER: My name is Bonnard - this is my land. Why are you here?
SOLDIERS: Food for the soldiers at the front. Everyone must give their share. And suddenly we see what is going to happen - the 20 peasants spread out and move through the field - with either bags, or using the aprons they wear - picking all the fruits - at just the moment all the work has brought forth fruit - and the new year's crop is ready.
GRANDFATHER: They are taking everything. Where are the horses? What horses? The sound of jars breaking draws Grandfather and Emilie into the kitchen, where the Germans continue to raid their other One German picks up waterbath canner inspecting it.
EMILIE: What horses? The sound of jars breaking draws Grandfather and Emilie into the kitchen, where the Germans continue to raid their other One German picks up waterbath canner inspecting it.
GERMAN SOLDIER: What is it?
GRANDFATHER: Leave it if you don't know what it's A pot is a pot. We'll find some use for it. Sir, where's the livestock? Brandt sits quietly, casually using his finger to scoop jam from an open jar.
GERMAN SOLDIER: A pot is a pot. We'll find some use for it. Sir, where's the livestock? Brandt sits quietly, casually using his finger to scoop jam from an open jar.
GRANDFATHER: I make jam. We have no animals.
GERMAN SOLDIER: But there's fresh hay in your barn. Emilie enters, overhearing.
EMILIE: We use it to replace the mattress Her grandfather?
GERMAN SOLDIER: Her grandfather?
GRANDFATHER: GERMAN SOLDIER
GERMAN SOLDIER: Where are her parents?
EMILIE: ( BREAKING IN )
GERMAN SOLDIER: What is that?
GRANDFATHER: The wind. It plays tricks in the Brandt licks his finger and tests:
BRANDT: There is no wind.
GRANDFATHER: An old house creaks.
GERMAN SOLDIER: She's sickly, no?
GRANDFATHER: If you or any of your friends harm her, as old as I am, I will kill The soldier looks shocked and then begins to laugh. He slaps the medicine flask into Grandfather's chest.
GERMAN SOLDIER: You know, I was going to give you back your pot. But now I'm going to keep it. For soup. He slings the huge pot he had put back up on his shoulder and leaves the house with the other soldiers.
BRANDT: We will be back in the new season. As the Germans leave, we cut to the upstairs bedroom where Emilie lies curled up on the bed - and there, standing on either side of the bed - are the two horses. They look huge in the tiny room.
EMILIE: Tell me what happened to them. To my mother and father. Grandfather doesn't respond.
GRANDFATHER: Yes. Yes. It was your parents who were brave. I make jams.
EMILIE: And you've never done a brave thing in your life? He eases himself into a chair and shrugs.
GRANDFATHER: Maybe there are different ways to be brave. Did you know the French have the best carrier pigeons? And this could be the difference in the war - our messages getting through.
EMILIE: I don't want to hear about the They are released at the front and told to go home - this is all they know. But to get there they must fly over a war. Can you imagine such a thing? Here you are flying over so much pain and terror - and you know you can never look down. You have to look forward or you'll never get home. I ask you - what could be braver than that? Emilie sheds a single tear.
GRANDFATHER: They are released at the front and told to go home - this is all they know. But to get there they must fly over a war. Can you imagine such a thing? Here you are flying over so much pain and terror - and you know you can never look down. You have to look forward or you'll never get home. I ask you - what could be braver than that? Emilie sheds a single tear.
EMILIE: What is that?
GRANDFATHER: A present. Emilie moves toward the object that is covered.
EMILIE: I hope you have not bought me a disgusting dress that I then have to wear like last year.
GRANDFATHER: ( LAUGHING )
EMILIE: Yes. I looked like an ugly nun.
GRANDFATHER: Anything you say, my sweet one. Anything-you-say! You are, of course, the boss. It's just an old thing I found - don't worry yourself - leave it, I'll put it back. He leaves the room. Now Emilie is alone and she can't help it when she brings her eyes back to the object covered by the rug. She looks back over her shoulder to make sure she's not being watched and then lifts one corner of the rug. Her face explodes with a gorgeous smile. She pulls off the rug that is covering the big thing and.it is a gorgeous old saddle. She runs her hand along the saddle can hardly believe it.
GRANDFATHER: It was your mother's. I hid it, so as not to encourage you. Emilie, I want you to ride very slowly, very carefully. And promise me you won't go far
EMILIE: Of course. Okay, I promise.
GRANDFATHER: To the top of the hill and straight back again.
EMILIE: I promise. Emilie unties her hair and tosses the red pennant to Grandfather, releasing her hair to spill down her back and My hero. She sets off on Joey - and quickly spurs him to a gallop.
GRANDFATHER: She rides - past the windmill - and then over the top of a nearby hill - she speeds over it and out of sight. Back to the hill - a sudden change of mood. An empty shot. No movement, no returning girl.
EMILIE: No! Let go of me! No!
GRANDFATHER: She is my granddaughter! Emilie, stop! Don't hurt her, please! Don't hurt her. A soldier roughly shoves Emilie at him. Brandt approaches. Emilie screams at him, in tears.
EMILIE: You don't need them! There are so many others! Emilie is still sobbing. Grandfather hugs her - in horror that she is now struggling so hard for breath.
GRANDFATHER: Please, take the bigger one and leave the smaller one. You are breaking my granddaughter's heart.
BRANDT: ( LEAVING ) ( CALLING AFTER )
GRANDFATHER: ( CALLING AFTER )
BRANDT: They will pull artillery until they
EMILIE: ( COUGHING )
BRANDT: - or until the war is over.
GRANDFATHER: It will never be over!
BRANDT: You have your answer then. The motorbikes start up and drive off. The Grandfather hugging tiny Emilie as she coughs.
BRANDT: Heiglemann - these are yours.
FRIEDRICH: Yes, sir.
BRANDT: They look strong - should last a month or two. FRIEDRICH is an unprepossessing, chubby man. He marvels at You are beautiful. But then he looks to the other horses penned nearby, haggard and weak. He turns to Joey.
FRIEDRICH: You are beautiful. But then he looks to the other horses penned nearby, haggard and weak. He turns to Joey.
ARTILLERY OFFICER: Pull together! A soldier calls from the front of the heavy cannon - pulled by a particularly wretched group of horses.
ARTILLERY SOLDIER: Halt! Halt! Stop! Lower down the hill, Friedrich waves down the rest of the Stop! Stop! At the front of the Morser, one of the lead horses collapses - he will never get up again. Brandt steps up, pulls a revolver out of his pocket and shoots the horse dead. It has come to this. Joey, Topthorn, and all the other horses are spooked by the pistol shot. Brandt shouts to Friedrich from the road.
FRIEDRICH: Stop! Stop! At the front of the Morser, one of the lead horses collapses - he will never get up again. Brandt steps up, pulls a revolver out of his pocket and shoots the horse dead. It has come to this. Joey, Topthorn, and all the other horses are spooked by the pistol shot. Brandt shouts to Friedrich from the road.
BRANDT: Heiglemann, bring up another one!
ARTILLERY OFFICER: Heiglemann, bring up another horse!
BRANDT: That one! Friedrich begins leading Joey up the hill, but
FRIEDRICH: He's a good horse, sir. But if you move him up to the heavy gun, he will be no use at all. Prince is already losing condition. His leg, You have given them names?
BRANDT: You have given them names?
FRIEDRICH: Yes, sir.
BRANDT: You should never give a name to anything you are certain to lose.
FRIEDRICH: His leg is not good enough, sir.
BRANDT: Private, you will do as you are Hook him up. Friedrich has no choice but as he starts to lead Topthorn, Joey rears up and escapes his groom. He gallops up the hill to the gun - offering himself up to save Topthorn. It is his "Tale of Two Cities" moment - giving up his life to save his friend. He bucks and rears. Friedrich turns to Brandt.
FRIEDRICH: As you see, sir, this one is Brandt takes up Friedrich, and Joey's, offer -
BRANDT: Hook him up. As Joey is hooked to the gun, he looks back to Friedrich who leads Topthorn back down the hill.
OFFICER: Halt! Halt! Take the horses away!
ARTILLERY OFFICER: Friedrich observes with Topthorn as a giant shell is carried to the gun's breech.
SERGEANT MARTIN: Valuables in the bucket, lads. If you live, you'll get them back. If you live, you'll get them back. Good lads. Albert and Andrew move down the trench in a line of soldiers who are given ammo belts and grenades. Albert gets his grenades and walks further along the trenches. We follow him in real time as he passes a bunch of soldiers who are kneeling in the ankle deep water, a PADRE is giving them communion. The deafening noise of shelling all Maybe it's a drill, Albie. Maybe it's a drill like last time. We keep following Albert's progress in real time - further on there is a post box where they all put their final letters home in identical green envelopes. We see Albert's letter addressed to "Ted and Rose Narracott" in Devon. He posts it in a battered metal post box.
ANDREW: Maybe it's a drill, Albie. Maybe it's a drill like last time. We keep following Albert's progress in real time - further on there is a post box where they all put their final letters home in identical green envelopes. We see Albert's letter addressed to "Ted and Rose Narracott" in Devon. He posts it in a battered metal post box.
DAVID: Love letter?
ALBERT: That's my business. It is David - Lyon's son - now in charge of this small group of men. Still arrogant - looking older than Albert in his uniform - and clearly enjoying his superior rank.
DAVID: I hear you and your mate were doing bird imitations again. You gonna write a letter to your horse? Albert ignores him. Andrew can't help but giggle.
ALBERT: ( TO ANDREW )
DAVID: I remember you somersaulting through the air.
ALBERT: Who was that girl you were with?
DAVID: There was a girl? Albert nods.
ALBERT: There was. Don't you remember?
DAVID: It was just some girl, I suppose. I don't recall which one. I do remember you falling on your bum in a ditch. Andrew laughs amiably. David points to him, smirking.
ANDREW: You did that? You fell on your bum? Albert leaves without answering. Andrew keeps smiling until a large shell explodes nearby. Troops surge towards their ladders as officers scream indistinct orders. Now David leads his troop through the trenches to the front line where they stop, lean against the enemy-side wall nervously and wait - each man in private contemplation. Sergeant Martin moves along the lines, pushing men forward.
SERGEANT MARTIN: Be ready! Be ready! Let's go, men, get ready to go! Get ready to move out! Stay in position! David calls out from atop a trench ladder.
DAVID: Hold your nerve, boys. Remember, it's not far to go. There's a way ( he moves down the line ) Run fast, keep your wits about you, keep your eyes open and God and the King will keep an eye on you. Company will fix bayonets! Fix The echo of `fix bayonets' goes down the line - and every man fixes the brutal shining bayonet to the end of his gun. Then Albert turns to Andrew.
ALBERT: You know what it reminds me of out That bloody impossible lower field the day me and Joey plowed it. Best day of my life that was and you were And this here is the worst day of my life, about to begin, and you're here cheering me on. Us two, always. And him. He nods at David Lyons, who gives instructions to another Once you're in no man's land, go to the flanks. Stay on the flanks.
ANDREW: That bloody impossible lower field the day me and Joey plowed it. Best day of my life that was and you were And this here is the worst day of my life, about to begin, and you're here cheering me on. Us two, always. And him. He nods at David Lyons, who gives instructions to another Once you're in no man's land, go to the flanks. Stay on the flanks.
ALBERT: That bloody impossible lower field the day me and Joey plowed it. Best day of my life that was and you were And this here is the worst day of my life, about to begin, and you're here cheering me on. Us two, always. And him. He nods at David Lyons, who gives instructions to another Once you're in no man's land, go to the flanks. Stay on the flanks.
ANDREW: And this here is the worst day of my life, about to begin, and you're here cheering me on. Us two, always. And him. He nods at David Lyons, who gives instructions to another Once you're in no man's land, go to the flanks. Stay on the flanks.
DAVID: Once you're in no man's land, go to the flanks. Stay on the flanks.
SOLDIER: Yes, sir. David turns to Albert and Andrew.
DAVID: Come on, boys, come on. To the Stick close to the gentry, that's our ticket, yeah? We have the pluck but they have the luck. They both smile. And then the fear takes over again. Andrew particularly feels as though he is on the very edge now. David urges them forward.
ALBERT: ( TO ANDREW )
DAVID: You, too, Narracott.
SERGEANT MARTIN: Listen to your sergeant! He pulls Andrew aside, speaking so that everyone can hear.
SOLDIERS: Yes, sir! The sergeant pushes in on Andrew, private and intense.
SERGEANT: Do you understand me? Do you understand what I'm telling you, son? You take this rifle and you shoot them dead. Understand? Andrew looks ready to cry, but manages to nod. Albert turns to him, only to be pushed back by the sergeant.
ALBERT: It's good. Andrew, it's good. Andrew! Nobody's retreating today. Andrew! Andrew! Nobody. Is retreating. Today. The COMMANDER arrives, checks the time on his AIDE's watch, mounts his ladder and blows a whistle to signal the charge. A BAGPIPER plays as the men go over the top. David now heads up the ladder first. Gun fire overhead, Albert steels himself, then hauls himself over the top, followed by the next man and the next.
DAVID: I'm shot! No! Albert instinctively goes to help. Bullets shower all around Just leave me. Leave me! Albert grabs him and drags him onwards with him - David screaming at the pain - Albert grimly determined. Shells explode around them as they stumble on. Other men are running and falling. Albert sees cover in a huge shell-hole so dives into it for a moment's reprieve from the gun fire. He sits in still terror for a moment.
ALBERT: You'll be all right here. You'll be safe. Someone'll come for ya.
DAVID: Albert. Albert, listen.
ALBERT: It's all right. It's all right. We're Devon boys, yeah? David looks at Albert as though seeing him for the first Albert races onward. Back at the trench, Andrew waits - terrified - and then, back out of the mist step two men - heading back towards him. Then a third. They suddenly catch sight of Andrew waiting there with his gun pointed towards them. They slow down - in the terror of the assault, they had forgotten that death was waiting for them if they turned back.
DAVID: Albert races onward. Back at the trench, Andrew waits - terrified - and then, back out of the mist step two men - heading back towards him. Then a third. They suddenly catch sight of Andrew waiting there with his gun pointed towards them. They slow down - in the terror of the assault, they had forgotten that death was waiting for them if they turned back.
RANDOM SOLDIER: Get down! Albert continues forward to dive into another shell hole, nearer to the German line. He scrambles from shell hole to shell hole. Now he's very close to the machine gun position. Albert takes a grenade, fumbles with the pin as his hands tremble. He finally gets the pin out and he hurls the grenade at the machine gunner. We see the explosion and the machine gun stop. Albert sprints over the top again and makes it all the way into the German trench. Albert runs through the trench, which seems curiously empty. Albert swings round as he sees the startling face of a gas- masked German holding a rifle on him. Albert readies his bayonet but the man is dead, slumped backwards against the side of the trench still upright. Albert spins round, his bayonetted rifle in front of him, ready for action, but there is only the ghostly sight of dead German soldiers. Albert is alone, everyone else is dead. All the dead wear gas masks. More British soldiers drop into the trench, among them Andrew. He stumbles in the mud, drops his rifle, recovers it, and races through the trench. He glimpses Albert ahead of him, stalking through the mist. Andrew breaks into a smile and rushes forward, prompting Albert to whirl with his rifle raised.
ANDREW: Albert pauses just in time. Then he collapses against the side of the trench, overwhelmed.
NO!: Albert pauses just in time. Then he collapses against the side of the trench, overwhelmed.
ALBERT: We made it. We made it. A moment later, the pair of them hurry through the trenches. Albert spots more comrades around a corner and calls ahead to Andrew, this way out! Suddenly ANOTHER SOLDIER leaps from a trench branch between them, shouting in panic.
SOLDIER: Gas! Gas! Gas! An instant later, a gas cloud blasts through the trench. Andrew and Albert look in horror. It spreads towards them, too powerful to avoid. Andrew is closest, turns to Albert with a helpless -
ANDREW: - before he takes the full power of it. An instant later, the white, deadly cloud encompasses Albert, too.
GERMAN OFFICER: Hey, there's no stopping here. Keep them moving.
FRIEDRICH: Sir, there's something wrong. This one needs to rest.
GERMAN OFFICER: There's no rest for them. Move them along. Move them along! Instead, Friedrich leads the horses under the cover of a low bridge for a brief respite. A moment later, Topthorn Please, please, please. Stay on your feet. No, please. No no no. Friedrich tries to help Topthorn valiantly struggling to get up but finally sinks to the ground again. This time he lies semi-conscious. He is dying.
FRIEDRICH: Please, please, please. Stay on your feet. No, please. No no no. Friedrich tries to help Topthorn valiantly struggling to get up but finally sinks to the ground again. This time he lies semi-conscious. He is dying.
GERMAN OFFICER: They're coming! Leave it, private! Friedrich tries to pull Joey away to safety but Joey will not leave Topthorn's body. Friedrich pulls at Joey, but Joey is too lost in his grief to care about or even notice the GERMAN OFFICER ( CONT'D ) Leave it! Come with me!
FRIEDRICH: Go to hell! The officer nods to two other soldiers who pull Friedrich to safety. As he's dragged away, he screams at Joey:
SOLDIER: What the hell is it?
GEORDIE SOLDIER: It looks like a cow. He passes the periscope to the second soldier.
SOLDIER: What the hell would a cow be doing out We see what he sees - nothing but morning mist on the surreal landscape - and something strange. It is Joey in the distance
SOLDIER 2: That definitely isn't a cow.
SOLDIER: ( handing over periscope ) Well, what is it?
SECOND GERMAN: It can't be a horse. Nothing alive could be out there.
THIRD GERMAN: It isn't a horse. It isn't a horse. The first German looks through his periscope. We see what he sees - Joey in the mist:
SECOND GERMAN: Yes - it's a horse. The second German looks through the periscope, stunned.
THIRD GERMAN: It's a horse. A third German ( PETER ) lowers his binoculars.
PETER: Yeah, it's a horse.
BRITISH CAPTAIN: Well, bugger me. It's a horse.
GEORDIE SOLDIER: Lads, we should call him.
BRITISH SOLDIER: How do you call a horse? The Geordie starts clicking his tongue, followed by all of his comrades. They all try to attract Joey's attention with tongue clicks.
PETER: He's caught on the wire.
GEORDIE SOLDIER: Oh sod it. Geordie climbs up the side of the trench, and waves a white handkerchief tied to the end of his bayonet.
BRITISH CAPTAIN: What do you think you're doing? Get back, do you hear me? Corporal, that's an order! Get back! Geordie, not receiving fire, is emboldened to stand up.
BRITISH SOLDIER: Listen to him, sir. We can't leave him. He waves the handkerchief to clearly signal he is no threat.
PETER: What's he doing?
SECOND GERMAN: It's a trap.
PETER: No, I don't think so. I think he's trying to help. The second German cocks his rifle and starts to take aim.
THIRD GERMAN: Scare him back into his hole. The second German takes a shot aimed over the Geordie's EXT. NO MAN'S LAND. THE SAME. The Geordie crouches for cover, waving his handkerchief more It's a white flag, ent it? You see the white flag!? I'm just after tending to this here horse, is all! The Georgie marshals his courage and stands again, waving the Get back, you stupid git! There's no fire from the German trenches. Muttering to himself, the Geordie marches forward towards Joey:
GEORDIE: It's a white flag, ent it? You see the white flag!? I'm just after tending to this here horse, is all! The Georgie marshals his courage and stands again, waving the Get back, you stupid git! There's no fire from the German trenches. Muttering to himself, the Geordie marches forward towards Joey:
BRITISH CAPTAIN: Get back, you stupid git! There's no fire from the German trenches. Muttering to himself, the Geordie marches forward towards Joey:
GEORDIE: The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, he leadeth me into green pastures, he lay me down beside the still waters. The Geordie walks very slowly across the mud - there are bodies - the ground squelches beneath his feet. He waves his handkerchief as he walks. He crosses a narrow bridge that spans a flooded bomb crater. Joey, lying on his side, wrapped head to toe in barbed wire, covered in mud, watches Geordie approach. When Geordie gets too close, Joey freaks out and begins thrashing about. Joey whinnies a high scream of pain, because wire is cutting into his hide in several places, and as he thrashes it cuts him deeper. Particularly worrisome is a strand that's wrapped around his head, crossing right over his eye, threatening to slash it. The Geordie calls out in a soothing voice:
PETER: I thought perhaps you might need He holds out the wire cutters. The Geordie, still frightened, stares stupidly at them.
GEORDIE: Yeah, yeah I. Ummm, thanks. Cheers. Cheers. He reaches out and takes the proffered cutters.
PETER: That.That's a very long strand. When you cut it, it's going to release this - He points to a wire wrapped around the wire the Geordie's lifting. Then he points to two other wires, similarly
GEORDIE: You speak good English.
PETER: I speak English well. ( re: the cutters ) May I? The Geordie hands them over and Peter surveys the wires.
GEORDIE: Pity you didn't bring a second pair. Then I could cut the wire here - He points to one of the wires entangled with the strand he'd been prepared to cut. Peter stands and shouts in the direction of his trench.
PETER: WE NEED MORE WIRE CUTTERS! All at once one, two, three, six pairs of cutters come soaring through the air and splash into the watery crater. Moments later - Peter and the Geordie kneel beside Joey, each with a pair of cutters. Joey is calming down again. The Geordie positions himself across Joey's body so that when he's cut the wire, it won't coil back and cut Joey. Peter positions himself to be able to cut the two wires in quick succession, holding the first wire to stop it from springing Joey's completely still now. Peter points between Joey's eyes.
GEORDIE: Say no more, I'm right behind you. As they reposition themselves, the Geordie says to Joey:
PETER: Delightful. We read, we knit sweaters, and we train our rats to perform circus tricks.
GEORDIE: Well, if ever you need any more rats, we can always send ours over. `Cause we've more than we need, strictly speaking. Besides, they scare off all the pretty girls.
PETER: Our girls aren't afraid of rats.
GEORDIE: Big strapping German girls, eh? Kind what gives robust massages? They laugh.
PETER: Every Thursday! And they bring rum cake on your birthday. Both men smile at this while Joey is completely still; they work quickly, in concert, cutting the horse's head free of the wire.
GEORDIE: Look at that horse! Look at the muscles he's got, them long legs. They're made for running, horses. Runnin' away from danger.
PETER: Running away is all they have.
GEORDIE: Yet we taught `em opposite. Running into the fray.
PETER: War horse.
GEORDIE: Yeah. War horse. And there he is. What a strange beast you've become. The Geordie grabs hold of Joey's halter, though Joey shows no sign of running. Joey is finally free. The two men look at each other.
PETER: And now?
GEORDIE: I take him back with me, yeah?
PETER: Since I supplied the cutters, the horse is mine. This is fair, no?
GEORDIE: In a pig's eye. He's English, plain to see.
PETER: Oh, you mean because he's so filthy?
GEORDIE: Because he's so smart. And you're none too clean yourself.
PETER: We could box. And the winner gets the horse. The Geordie smiles.
GEORDIE: No, thanks, pet. Must be careful not to start a war. ( patting his pockets: ) Do you have a coin of any sort?
PETER: Coin toss?
GEORDIE: He takes a coin from his pocket, hands it to the Geordie, who looks at it.
PETER: My name is not Fritz - it is Peter.
GEORDIE: Peter - I'm Colin.
PETER: You call it, Colin.
GEORDIE: Peter spins it in the air and lets it fall into the mud. They look down. Peter shakes his head, resigned.
PETER: That's the face of my Kaiser and he does not look pleased with me. The horse is yours. They collect their helmets as snow begins to blow around Gone quiet, hasn't it?
GEORDIE: Gone quiet, hasn't it?
PETER: ( PAUSE ) ( MORE ) PETER ( CONT'D )
GEORDIE: I'm a terrible shot, Pete, don't believe I'll ever hit the target. He hands back the cutters.
PETER: He notices the Geordie has offered his hand, as well. A beat, then Peter shakes with him.
GEORDIE: I will.
PETER: Our strange beast.
GEORDIE: And you take care of your own strange self. Peter tosses Geordie his cutters.
PETER: Colin! A pair of German cutters - in memory of your handsome friend from Dusseldorf.
GEORDIE: Peter nods, and walks back to his trench. As he goes, the Geordie calls after him:
PETER: Remarkable! A remarkable horse! The Geordie leads Joey towards the British trenches.
SERGEANT MARTIN: We're full up. Move on. David is seated next to Albert, who now seems in worse condition. His eyes are bandaged and he's wheezing. Andrew is nowhere to be seen. As a MEDICAL OFFICER checks Albert:.
DAVID: The gas got him - we had to wait till morning. The medic moves to Sergeant Martin, looking stricken.
MEDICAL OFFICER: This can't be all of us.
SERGEANT MARTIN: This is all. ( bellowing to the men ) All walking wounded, away to the dressing station! Away to the dressing station!
DOCTOR: What's this doing here?
GEORDIE: We need a vet, sir.
DOCTOR: There are no vets. We've scarcely any horses left.
GEORDIE: He's cut all over, but this leg here's got the worst of it. Geordie strokes Joey as the Doctor examines him.
DOCTOR: It's probably tetanus. It's no good.
GEORDIE: Please, sir - The Doctor heads back into the hospital, dismissive.
DOCTOR: I've all these men to take care of, corporal, you can see that, can't Please, sir, this horse can pull through anything. The doctor absorbs his earnest appeal.
GEORDIE: Please, sir, this horse can pull through anything. The doctor absorbs his earnest appeal.
ALBERT: What is it?
AN ORDERLY: It's a horse they found, wandering about in No Man's Land. ( easing him back onto a
COT ): Down you go.
ALBERT: What kind of an horse?
AN ORDERLY: Bloody miraculous kind of an horse, be my guess. Nothing makes it out of No Man's Land. Albert lies there, but can't let go of the thought:
ALBERT: Miraculous horse.
GEORDIE: ( to the doctor: ) He was alive, y'see, sir, where nothing survives, so to me and me mates, to the men, sir, he's - Well, we have high hopes for him -
DOCTOR: You should shoot him now. The Geordie is broken hearted.
GEORDIE: Oh, but I can't.
DOCTOR: It'd be a mercy, lad, that leg's not going to mend. The Doctor sadly addresses a nearby Sergeant.
SERGEANT FRY: Ladies, if you please. Total silence from the crowd who have gathered. They thought they were there to see something wonderful. And now they find that they've gathered for an execution - but can't take their eyes off it. The Sergeant waves them back.
SOLDIER: Go on. Do it again. One more whistle.
ALBERT: And this time, Joey trots over to Albert. The horse nuzzles into him. Albert can't see Joey but he touches him.
DOCTOR: ( to the Geordie: ) Do you know this man? The Geordie shakes his head, no. The Doctor speaks to Albert, gently; clearly he thinks he's dealing with a traumatized, possibly crazy soldier.
ALBERT: Narracott, Private Albert Narracott, This is a random horse, Narracott, and too badly injured. ( to the orderly ) Is this man in your care?
DOCTOR: This is a random horse, Narracott, and too badly injured. ( to the orderly ) Is this man in your care?
AN ORDERLY: Yes, sir.
ALBERT: He's not random at all, sir! He's my horse, I raised him, in Devon. Sir, look at his legs! He's got four white socks, he's brown all over - ( points to his own
FOREHEAD ): - and he has a white mark here - like so. He makes the shape of a diamond with his hands. The doctor turns to the orderly.
DOCTOR: Take him back.
AN ORDERLY: Come on, son.
GEORDIE: Wait! You can't see `cause of the The Geordie looks around, spots a bucket of water, grabs it and uses a rag to clean Joey's legs, revealing the socks. The Geordie looks at the doctor.
SERGEANT FRY: All right, break it up. Clear off, the lot of ya.
ALBERT: You see, sir? He's not random at The doctor steps up to him.
DOCTOR: We will attend to your horse. Patch him up best we can. Treat him like the soldier he is.
ALBERT: Thank you, sir. With one last amazed look at Albert and Joey, the doctor returns to the hospital area. Moments later - Albert, the Geordie, and Sergeant Fry all lead Joey through the snowy street together.
SERGEANT FRY: Gentlemen! Gentlemen! It falls on me to give you some important news. At eleven o'clock today, in two minutes time - the War will come to an end. Shock from the troops. Strangely muted. Not the explosion of emotion you might have expected. Albert enters, his eyes still red, but no longer bandaged.
ALBERT: I don't understand, sir.
MAJOR TOMPKINS: Officers' horses only. All other horses are to be auctioned That is a complete and bloody outrage. It's the lad's horse, sir, from Devon. He raised him up from a pup, he did. Trained him right up to the day when the army came to These aren't my orders, sergeant.
SERGEANT FRY: That is a complete and bloody outrage. It's the lad's horse, sir, from Devon. He raised him up from a pup, he did. Trained him right up to the day when the army came to These aren't my orders, sergeant.
MAJOR TOMPKINS: These aren't my orders, sergeant.
GEORDIE: We've all clubbed together. It's everything we have. There's twenty-nine pounds there. Buy him back.
ALBERT: Does the Major know?
GEORDIE: The Major put in ten. The Geordie flashes a sly wink.
SERGEANT FRY: Come on, Narracott! Get a move on. We don't want to miss the show. Albert snaps to attention and begins to lead Joey out of the parade ground with the other horses. As they walk off, the sergeant silently adds some of his own money to the notes in Albert's hand.
AUCTIONEER: Seven pounds! Seven pounds there! Seven pounds! Eight pounds here! A groom leads Joey to the auction pen with other horses.
GEORDIE: You're alright. Nobody's gonna bid more than fifteen for a thoroughbred. They want work The auctioneer starts the bidding on Joey.
AUCTIONEER: Next one. We start at four pounds. Four pounds. The farmers seem disinterested, shaking of heads. The bidding starts. Five pounds, six, seven, now it goes slowly, eight, nine, ten. Albert looks pleased at how it's going. He feels the cash in his hand. It seems to stick on ten, then a new hand comes up at the back of the auction - it is a nasty looking moustached man.
THE BUTCHER: Sergeant Fry scowls.
SERGEANT FRY: It's the butcher from Cambrai. He's been bidding for the best all Eleven. Eleven pounds. Eleven pounds.
AUCTIONEER: Eleven. Eleven pounds. Eleven pounds.
SERGEANT FRY: Let me handle this, private. ( he calls out ) ) Fifteen, and let that be an end to it. He looks daggers at the Butcher.
AUCTIONEER: Fifteen pounds.
BUTCHER: Sixteen pounds.
AUCTIONEER: Sixteen pounds.
SERGEANT FRY: Twenty of your English pounds. And let THAT be the end of it, my friend.
BUTCHER: Twenty of your English pounds. And let THAT be the end of it, my friend.
AUCTIONEER: Twenty pounds.
SERGEANT FRY: Twenty Five.
AUCTIONEER: Twenty five pounds.
BUTCHER: Twenty Six.
AUCTIONEER: Twenty six pounds. The men are all looking very worried. There's not much Twenty seven.
SERGEANT FRY: Twenty seven.
BUTCHER: Twenty eight.
AUCTIONEER: Twenty eight pounds.
SERGEANT FRY: Twenty nine.
BUTCHER: And thirty.
AUCTIONEER: Any advance at thirty pounds? Then, from the back, another, new French voice.
FINAL BIDDER: One hundred pounds. He steps to the front of the crowd, and suddenly we see who it is. It is Emilie's Grandfather.
GRANDFATHER: And sir, if you bid against me, I will sell the coat on my back and bid to one hundred and ten. And if you bid against me again, I will sell my farm and bid to a thousand. Everyone looks at Albert who is devastated. Albert is reeling. He hears the auctioneer repeat the final amount and brings down his gavel.
AUCTIONEER: One hundred pounds. Going, going, The soldiers slowly disperse, leaving Albert to stare at Joey. It really is all over.
ALBERT: Sir, I'll give you all your money. Everything you paid when we get back to England. I'll give you twice -
GRANDFATHER: You don't know anything about him.
ALBERT: Oh, but you're wrong, sir, I know Yes, you found him! I heard you found a horse in the wire between the armies -
GRANDFATHER: Yes, you found him! I heard you found a horse in the wire between the armies -
GEORDIE: No, I found him, he raised him - The Grandfather goes to Joey and takes his reins.
GRANDFATHER: When I heard about the miracle horse, I traveled three days because I knew whose horse it was. My granddaughter's. She saved his life! He was everything to her. He pauses, briefly, to collect himself.
GEORDIE: Where is your granddaughter?
GRANDFATHER: The war has taken everything from everyone. He is all that I have left of her. The Grandfather leads Joey away. Joey pulls, firmly but not wildly, on the rein the grandfather's holding. The grandfather lets go.
ALBERT: Don't be worried, boy, when I go. I won't worry over you none. Hey, I found you, didn't I, and you found Grandfather softens and begins to wonder about this soldier.
GRANDFATHER: Do you know what this is? Albert's amazed.
ALBERT: It's my father's. It's his regimental pennant. How did you come by this, sir? Grandfather hands Albert the pennant.
GRANDFATHER: You may have this. Albert takes the pennant and looks at it, his eyes filling with tears.
ALBERT: Thank you ever so much for this, ( with a sigh ) . And this. He hands Albert Joey's reins. Albert turns to face him, almost mute with disbelief. He reaches for his money.
GRANDFATHER: ( with a sigh ) . And this. He hands Albert Joey's reins. Albert turns to face him, almost mute with disbelief. He reaches for his money.
ALBERT: What was her name?
GRANDFATHER: ( turns back with a smile ) Her name is Emilie. Albert gently embraces Joey.
THE END: Writers : Lee Hall Richard Curtis
