WARRIOR: Written by Gavin O'Connor, Anthony Tambakis & Cliff Dorfman
PADDY: Tommy? Tommy gives a drunken, crooked smile.
PADDY (CONT'D): What're you doing here?
TOMMY: I was just passing through. Figured why not have a belt with the old man.
TOMMY (CONT'D): She looks good.
PADDY: (patting car hood) Yeah, she's hanging in there.
TOMMY: Well, you always did take good care of her. Paddy Conlon. Man of priorities. Paddy grins uncomfortably. Lets the remark go and climbs the stairs as Tommy reaches into his duffel bag and produces a fresh BOTTLE of Jameson. He offers it to Paddy.
TOMMY (CONT'D): Got a little something for ya. Mom always said never go anywhere empty handed.
PADDY: She did. But that's not for me anymore, Tommy.
TOMMY: What? You change brands? Paddy shakes his head. Tommy looks at him. Paddy Conlon not drinking? What gives?
PADDY: C'mon, let's go inside. Paddy pats his son on the back and heads for the door as a confused Tommy follows.
TOMMY: I like what you've done with the place.
TOMMY: There's not much of a woman's touch around here.
TOMMY: Yeah? Must be hard to find a girl who can take a punch nowadays. Tommy takes another swig from his bottle and looks at a series of old PHOTOGRAPHS lining the walls as Paddy walks into the room carrying a coffee pot and saucers on an old wicker tray. Tommy looks at him, incredulous.
PADDY: Here you go.
TOMMY: Coffee? You haven't seen a guy in 14 years and you're not gonna have a drink with him?
PADDY: I told you, I'm off it. I'm coming up on a thousand days.
TOMMY: C'mon, just one drink.
PADDY: No. Tommy shrugs. Takes another pull from his bottle and turns back to the photos. He takes them in.
PADDY (CONT'D): He's a school teacher down in Philly. Tommy's face registers surprise.
PADDY (CONT'D): Remember Tess? They've got two beautiful little girls. Tommy turns back to the photos and looks at another one of the woman. Obviously his MOTHER. He puts it down, glances at the bible, then stares hard at Paddy.
TOMMY: So you found God, huh? That's awesome. Mom kept calling for him, but he wasn't around. I guess Jesus was down at the mill forgiving all the drunks. Who knew? Paddy sips his coffee. Says nothing. Tommy keeps pressing.
TOMMY (CONT'D): So, you gonna ask about her, or you just gonna sit there all sober?
PADDY: I know.
TOMMY: Oh, you know? What do you know? Do you know it wasn't enough just to drive west to get away from you? When we hit the water we drove north, too.
PADDY: When I got sober I hired a man to find you.
TOMMY: (taking a swig) Is that one of the 12 steps? Or does a guy like you get 24?
PADDY: Just the 12.
TOMMY: Did your guy tell you what you needed to know?
PADDY: Just that your mother died in Tacoma. And you were in the Marines. That was all. That was enough.
TOMMY: That's too bad. You could've gotten some good details. Tommy plops himself into a recliner. Glances at the coffee table, where a stack of classic books on tape sits. CRIME AND
TOMMY (CONT'D): You could've heard about her coughing up blood in a shit box with no heat. Having me rub her down with holy water, because she didn't have no insurance. All the while waiting for your pal Jesus to save her. Did your man tell you that?
PADDY: I'm sorry, Tommy.
TOMMY: It's good to know you're sorry, Pop. Goes a long way. Paddy chokes up. Tommy looks at him. Closes his eyes.
TOMMY (CONT'D): I think I liked you better when you were a drunk. An overwhelmed Paddy sips his coffee and looks at Tommy, who is fading. The pills are kicking in. He tries to open his eyes, but it's no use, and after a few moments he's out.
TESS: What's going on here?
BRENDAN: Well, I'm not sure, but I think Daddy is now a princess. Tess laughs. Brendan looks at her with a "Help me out here" expression.
TESS: Em, you want to open your presents? The make-over ends abruptly at the mention of "presents." Emily, little sister in tow, runs over to a table filled with gifts as PARENTS and CHILDREN gather around. Brendan gets out of the lawn chair and follows Tess over to the gift table. Amidst all the presents is one BOX, covered in pink wrapping paper, that is far larger than the rest.
TESS (CONT'D): (off pink box) This an awfully big box.
BRENDAN: It's her birthday. Tess turns the video camera toward Brendan again. He couldn't look more ridiculous. And he obviously didn't clear the gift with his wife. He grins at her as she lowers the camera.
TESS: I know, but that's why you call it a budget. You set it, and you don't budge. Brendan smiles in his make-up. Kisses his wife.
TESS: Hey babe, I'm late. Mom's saying goodbye to the girls. She's gotta get on the road. They've been fed. They just need a bath.
BRENDAN: I'm on it.
TESS: Can you get them down at a reasonable time tonight? They're exhausted. Brendan kisses Tess. Looks at her outfit.
BRENDAN: Where's the rest of that skirt?
TESS: Babe.
BRENDAN: Listen, if any guys give you a hassle in that joint tonight you give me a call, okay?
TESS: (off his cut) Yeah. Just like you gave me a call when those Temple frat boys decided to smash up your face.
BRENDAN: I told you, most nights I sit on the stool and grade papers, but every now and then I need some action.
TESS: Alright, well wait up for me tonight. I'll see what I can do about that. Tess smiles flirtatiously and and heads for the car.
BRENDAN: Promises, promises.
TOMMY: Fitzy still own this?
FENROY: Don't know no Fitzy. Colt Boyd owns this gym. Fenroy goes back to his computer. Tommy stands there. Notices a Sparta POSTER on the wall reading: "THE WAR ON THE SHORE.
FENROY (CONT'D): Can I help you with something?
TOMMY: How's it work here?
FENROY: Thirty five a month with locker. We're open at 7, lights out at 11. You wanna join?
TOMMY: Sure. Fenroy grabs a pencil and an index card and puts them on the counter in front of Tommy.
FENROY: Put your name and contact info on the card.
BRENDAN: Whoa whoa whoa! There's a lesson in this too, OK? Listen up. So we have a body at rest, and you have the bat which needs--
TITO: Acceleration.
BRENDAN: Acceleration, right. If you have enough acceleration, you have might have a chance to break the body at rest. OK. Go ahead. Brendan, sleeves rolled up and a bemused look on his face, watches as Tito brings the bat down on the wood. As it CRACKS in half, the other students cheer wildly. Tito smiles and leans the bat against a blackboard with "NEWTON'S 2nd LAW OF MOTION" printed on it.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): There we go. Alright Tito, well done. Remind not to mess with you. Sit down everybody. Dial it down. As Tito high-fives his way back through the group, things settle down and the kids take their seats.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): So, have we got it? A room full of affirmatives, with the cocky voice of NASH, a skinny white kid in a Flyers jersey, standing out.
NASH: Force equals mass times acceleration. We got it.
BRENDAN: Alright. The third law-- A black student, STEPHON, looks up from his desk.
STEPHON: How many laws this dude got?
BRENDAN: The dude? The dude has three. Newton the dude says that for every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction. Brendan looks toward the classroom door, where two red-and- white clad CHEERLEADERS are peering in, then walks over to KC, a blonde cheerleader seated in his class. She is working a Blackberry and doesn't notice him approaching.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): For example, if KC does not stop the action of sending texts in class... Brendan stands directly in front of her desk. She quickly shoves the Blackberry under a stack of books.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): ...and tell her posse outside to beat it... He turns and shoos away the two cheerleaders peering in the window.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): ...then my reaction might be to send her down to Principal Zito's office. Thus setting our world back in proper balance.
KC: Mr. C, I put it away. The class busts on KC as Brendan walks back to his desk and sits on top of it. It's clear from the vibe in the room that he's a very popular teacher. Then the BELL rings.
BRENDAN: Alright, before you go, I have your tests from last week.
MAD DOG: Where do you find these girls? Colt climbs into the ring and looks at the fallen fighter. Glances at Mad Dog.
COLT BOYD: We got a tournament coming up. You gonna kill every guy in the `Burgh?
(TO FENROY): Fenroy. Get me some ice. And call that Puerto Rican kid, the one that fights outa the Bottoms. If he's here in 20 minutes, he gets 200 bucks.
TOMMY: Yo, I'll fight him. Colt turns around and looks at Tommy. As does Mad Dog, who smiles down at him from inside the ring.
COLT BOYD: Do me a favor guy, go back to your bag. We don't need anybody else getting hurt. G'head. Take a walk. Tommy walks back to his bag. Mad Dog smiles. Looks at Tommy's outfit.
MAD DOG: Yo Rock, what happened? You leave Mick and Paulie at home today? Tommy stops. Walks back to the ring as Fenroy approaches.
FENROY: His phone's disconnected.
COLT BOYD: Then go through the list. Get me Joe Bones.
TOMMY: All I'm saying is if you need somebody to help you, I'm happy to keep your boy warm for you. Colt looks at Mad Dog. What do you think? The Mohawked fighter looks at Tommy. Shrugs. It's his funeral.
COLT BOYD: You ever fought before?
TOMMY: Yeah. Colt studies Tommy. Sees he's serious. Gives in.
COLT BOYD: This guy sign a waiver?
FENROY: All good.
COLT BOYD: What's your name?
TOMMY: Tommy.
COLT BOYD: You get tuned up in here, it's on you, Tommy.
TOMMY: Sure, no problem.
COLT BOYD: Come on in. Colt Boyd waves Tommy into the ring. Mad Dog's entourage starts whispering amongst themselves. Snickering at what lays in wait for Tommy as the fallen sparring partner is helped out of the ring. A TRAINER tapes Tommy's hands and gives him some MMA gloves. He slips them on, then at the sound of a BUZZER he starts moving toward Mad Dog, who smirks at Tommy's aggression and then starts circling him. Tommy nails him with a front kick to the chest. Grimes staggers back and shakes it off.
MAD DOG: Gonna be a hero? Alright. He crouches down, gets serious. He throws a right. Blocked. A leg kick. Blocked. Tommy snaps his head with a jab. Then he does it again. And again. Then he DECKS HIM with a hard right, sending Mad Dog to the canvas to the shock of his entourage and Colt Boyd. Fenroy looks up from his post and walks over to the ring. Within moments everyone in the gym stops what they're doing and watches as Tommy grabs the back of Mad Dog's head, hauls it down, and launches knee after knee into his face. Tommy starts throwing Mad Dog around like a rag doll, striking him with vicious punches and kicks, as Fenroy pulls out his CELL PHONE and starts filming the action. As Colt Boyd screams at Mad Dog to cover up, Tommy shoves him against the ropes and blasts away. Tommy continues to pound. It's a full-fledged beating going on in there. Finally, he crushes Mad Dog with a vicious left hook and sends him sprawling through the ropes, UNCONSCIOUS. SILENCE in the gym. What the hell just happened here? The entourage rushes to Mad Dog's aid, but he's out cold. Colt Boyd looks on in disbelief as Tommy walks across the ring and approaches him.
TOMMY: You owe me two hundred bucks.
DAN TAYLOR: This is the new appraisal figure, and this is how it effects the monthly. As you can see, that puts you upside down on your mortgage. That's the problem. It's the country that did the assessment, not the bank. So, the numbers are what they are, Mr. Conlon.
BRENDAN: Brendan.
DAN TAYLOR: The numbers are what they are, Brendan. I mean, you're a Math teacher, you can appreciate that.
BRENDAN: I teach Physics.
DAN TAYLOR: Physics. OK. But the bank has got to go by the new appraisal figures. According to these figures, you're upside down on your mortgage--
BRENDAN: You said that three times already. I get that. But I'm asking you if there's something else you can do. Not the bank, you. Can you shift things around, restructure--
DAN TAYLOR: Well, you've already refinanced twice.
BRENDAN: Because you advised us to do that.
DAN TAYLOR: I presented you with that option. It was your choice.
(BEAT): I'm also showing you netted a substantial payout with the refi.
BRENDAN: We had that conversation. I was paying medical bills. Is that in your file? Taylor looks at Brendan. Takes him a second to remember.
DAN TAYLOR: Oh, right. Sorry. Your daughter's...kidney?
BRENDAN: Heart.
DAN TAYLOR: Heart, right. (off stack of files on desk) Lot of stories.
BRENDAN: So my option is I've got no options? You're not even gonna try to help me?
DAN TAYLOR: I am trying, Brendan. Look, I can get you 90 days to get even--
BRENDAN: 90 days is not enough. My wife and I have three jobs between us and that doesn't cut it. So, what do you suggest?
DAN TAYLOR: Let me ask you a question: have you considered bankruptcy? It's a viable option. There's no shame in it these days.
BRENDAN: That's not how I do things.
DAN TAYLOR: Well, then you're looking at foreclosure. Brendan gets up and storms out of the office.
COLT BOYD: How you doin,' sir? I'm looking for Tommy Riordan. Paddy registers the name "Riordan."
PADDY: Who?
COLT BOYD: Tommy Riordan? My name's Colt Boyd.
PADDY: What business you got with Tommy?
COLT BOYD: None yet. That's why I'm here. I manage fighters. Colt looks at Paddy. Jams his hands in his pockets. He's obviously waiting for an invite inside. It doesn't come.
PADDY: Conlon. Name's Conlon. And anything you want to know about Tommy, you gotta ask him yourself.
COLT BOYD: I'm just looking for some general information here.
PADDY: Like I said, anything you want to know about Tommy, you gotta ask him yourself.
COLT BOYD: Look, I don't mean to interrupt your night. He put this address down when he signed up at the gym.
PADDY: He doesn't live here. Paddy closes the door on a frustrated Colt.
(BEAT): Hey. I'm just pulling in. Huh? Oh, they've got this open mic night thing. Should be a quiet one. Sleep well. You too. Bye.
ANNOUNCER: It's time for our next contest! Introducing first, fighting out of the red corner, from Ripley, West Virginia, please welcome Mike "The Mutilator" Moore! Some hollers from the crowd.
ANNOUNCER (CONT'D): And in the blue corner. He fights out of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Please welcome "Irish" Brendan Conlon!
A: Lo and behold, there's a shirtless Brendan standing in the corner of the ring wearing a pair of shorts. On his right shoulder, an elaborate TATTOO of the CONLON FAMILY CREST.
ANNOUNCER (CONT'D): This bout is scheduled for three five-minute rounds, and when the action begins your referee is Mr. Rick Fike. The REFEREE enters the ring and stands between Brendan and Mike Moore.
REFEREE: Fighters to the center! I want you to obey my commands at all times. If you have no questions, touch gloves, back up, and wait for my signal. Come out fighting! Brendan reaches out to touch gloves with Mike Moore, but his opponent snubs him and storms back to his corner. He means business. Brendan, looking less sure of himself, retreats to his corner.
REFEREE (CONT'D): Fighters, are you ready? Let's go! The bikers raise hell as the BELL sounds. Moore comes out bombing. Brendan dodges a couple of wild haymakers, then gets caught in the side of the head with a right hand. He stumbles back into the ropes and Moore presses into him, swatting at him with his huge hands. Brendan absorbs the blows, ducks down, grabs Moore by the legs, lifts him, and dumps him on the mat with a resounding THUD. Obviously bull strong and with tremendous punching skills, Brendan sits on his opponent's chest and starts raining down shots, banging and banging, pulverizing his face and body. It's a full on ass-whooping going on in there until finally, mercifully, the referee stops the butchery amidst a mixture of CHEERS from the crowd and BOOS from the bikers. A winded Brendan walks to his corner, touches the side of his head, wipes a small amount of blood on his shorts, and climbs out of the ring, where a PROMOTER approaches.
PROMOTER: Nice fight. Two more wins and you take home the bacon.
TESS: Hey babe. How was work? Brendan doesn't answer. Tess slowly wakes up. As she does, she gets a look at his face.
TESS (CONT'D): Oh my God. What happened? You said it was going to be a slow night. Tess studies his face. Brendan looks at her. Reaches into his pocket and hands her $500 in cash.
BRENDAN: I'm not bouncing at a club.
TESS: What do you mean you're not bouncing? She looks at him. Looks at the money. Puts it together.
TESS (CONT'D): You've been lying to me?
BRENDAN: I went in to apply. They were only paying nine bucks an hour. Then I saw a sign for this other thing. Tess can't believe what she's hearing.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): They're putting us out of the house in three months, we're running out
TESS: Then they'll put us out of the house in three months. I'd rather go back to the old apartment than see you in the back of an ambulance again.
(BEAT): I thought we agreed that we weren't going to raise our children in a family where their father gets beat up for a living.
BRENDAN: We're not giving up the house. This is our home. We're not going
BACKWARDS: Tess reaches up and touches his battered face. Calms herself down. Embraces her husband.
TESS: We'll figure it out. But this is what we're not going back to.
PADDY: You wanted to talk?
TOMMY: Yeah.
(BEAT): I'm gonna start fighting.
PADDY: That right?
TOMMY: Don't play babe in the woods with me. I know that guy from the gym came to see you.
PADDY: Colt Boyd? I didn't tell him anything, Tommy.
TOMMY: We wouldn't be sitting here now if you did.
TOMMY (CONT'D): Alright. Look. There's this tournament. A big tournament. Top sixteen middleweights in the world. Single elimination. Winner take all for a lot of money. I'm gonna do that. But if I'm doin' it, then I'm gonna need a trainer. Now that much you were good at. (off Paddy grinning) No, no, no. This doesn't mean anything. Paddy tries to tether it down, but he's happy. Tommy looks at him sternly.
TOMMY (CONT'D): I'm serious. We train. That's it. I don't wanna hear a word about anything but training, you understand? You wanna tell your war stories, you can take `em down to the VFW. You can take `em to a meeting, or church, or wherever the hell it is you go nowadays.
PADDY: What about Colt Boyd?
TOMMY: What about him? I told him I don't train with people I don't know.
PADDY: Ah, the devil you know.
TOMMY: Excuse me?
PADDY: The devil you know is better than the devil you don't. Tommy looks at him. Grins for the first time.
PADDY (CONT'D): Chasing Theogenes. It'll be kinda like old times.
TOMMY: I just told you, this doesn't mean anything. You get that through your skull right now or I'm walking. Paddy calmly sips his coffee, then leans in on Tommy with a stern look. The old lion's got a few teeth left.
PADDY: Alright. Alright. But you get something through your skull, too. You called me. So don't go threatening to walk every five minutes. And since this is about training, you dump whatever it is you need to dump as far as those pills are concerned. I don't want to see `em. Tommy gives him a hard look, but the old man doesn't shy away.
PADDY (CONT'D): In fact, hand `em over right now.
(BEAT): I know they're on you, Tommy. You sounded like a goddamn maraca coming through the door. Tommy considers, then reaches into his pocket and slides two bottles across the table.
PADDY (CONT'D): That's not gonna do.
(SHAKING BOTTLES): When you came through that door it was chhh-chhh-chhh. (holding up 3 fingers) Three. Tommy looks at him. Fishes another bottle out of his pocket and flips it on the table.
PADDY (CONT'D): (off French fries) And another thing, you don't eat crap like this. This is for losers and old men.
(BEAT): And we're gonna have to bunk up. If we're gonna do this right, you gotta stay at the house.
PADDY (CONT'D): I watch your diet, we follow the old regimen. You copy? The two men stare at each other. Tommy looks furious, but he doesn't get up. A silent, tenuous agreement is reached.
PADDY (CONT'D): Copy.
TITO: My brother said he was at the strip club and saw Mr. C fighting MMA---
NASH: What's MMA?
STEPHON: Mixed Martial Arts. Like, different styles of fighting.
KC: Your brother's a liar. Brendan enters the room. The kids look at him. Holy shit. It's true.
BRENDAN: Take your seats. Brendan puts his bag down on his desk and faces the class. He is not amused by the murmuring in there.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): Now, please. The kids pipe down. Then Tito speaks up.
TITO: Yo, Mr. C. My brother was at the titty bar last night and said you was choking brothers out. What's up? Is it true?
STEPHON: Yeah, Mr. C. I mean, did you really work on some fools or something?
KC: You have to tell us. Before Brendan can answer, he sees PRINCIPAL JOE ZITO (50s) gesturing to him through the window of the classroom. Zito taps his watch and points. Come see me after class.
BRENDAN: C'mon, it's not as bad as it looks.
JOE ZITO: Are you being literal or figurative? Because literally it looks bad. And figuratively it looks even worse. The superintendent's coming by in a few minutes. So gimme a little help here, Brendan. Can you explain to me what the hell you were doing?
BRENDAN: I need the money, Joe.
JOE ZITO: Yeah, but we can't have this. This isn't moonlighting at Applebee's for Christ's sake. Zito stands up and runs his hands across his head.
BRENDAN: Actually, I used to be one of those animals. Zito looks at Brendan. Puzzled.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): I fought for a living.
(BEAT): Guess I forgot to put that down on my application.
JOE ZITO: Yeah, I guess you did. Zito sits back down.
BRENDAN: Look, I'm sorry, Joe. It's just--
JOE ZITO: Listen, the school district's not going to tolerate school teachers cockfighting in strip clubs.
BRENDAN: It was the parking lot of a strip club.
JOE ZITO: Wherever it was, you can't be doing it, alright? I mean this is a serious--shit, he's here. Zito sees the SUPERINTENDENT enter the foyer outside his office. He's looking none too pleased.
(BEAT): Guy hasn't been inside a school since 9-11.
BRENDAN: What are we gonna do?
JOE ZITO: You say yes, sir. And you say no, sir. And you say it'll never happen again, sir. And then we just pray to God he's in a good mood.
TESS: What are you doing?
BRENDAN: The girls have an important piano recital in the morning. Got an equipment malfunction.
(BEAT): How'd it go?
TESS: They're gonna review your case at the end of the semester, but until then you're suspended without pay. Joe gave me the number of his attorney.
BRENDAN: How the hell are we gonna pay for an attorney? Tess crouches down and enters the tiny room. She sits on the floor.
TESS: He talked to me for free. As a favor to Joe.
BRENDAN: That was nice.
TESS: He said there's no precedent for this. You'll be back by next semester.
BRENDAN: Next semester? Tess sighs. They sit in silence. There are no easy solutions. Finally, Brendan speaks up.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): Look, Tess. They have these smoker fights all over. There's one in Lancaster next week. There's two in Dover the week after. Wilmington. Camden. Baltimore. It could keep us afloat.
TESS: You're gonna put yourself through this over and over, for five hundred bucks a pop?
BRENDAN: Some of them pay a little more than that.
(BEAT): I would have had to bounce for a month to make what I made in two hours last night. Brendan looks at his wife.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): And these guys, they're not real fighters. They're just guys who have seen too much UFC on TV. If you have a better solution, I'm all ears. Tess sits quietly. Knows they have limited options.
TESS: What are we gonna tell the girls?
BRENDAN: It'll be fine. I'll just leave the house as usual, except now I'll be going to the gym. They look at each other. No choice. This is the plan.
PADDY: Oh the duck says quack and the cow says moo, and the old red rooster says cock-a-doodle-doo. Cock-a- doodle-doo. Paddy places the cup of coffee on the night stand as Tommy stirs, then sits on the empty bed and unrolls the poster. It's yellowed with age and covered with a boy's handwriting.
PADDY (CONT'D): Look what I found in that disaster of a basement. Whattya say we sit down and update this sometime? You can fill me in on how close you got to that record. Tommy says nothing. Not a nostalgic bone in his body. The dreams on that poster are long gone.
PADDY (CONT'D): Did you continue wrestling after you left with your mother?
(BEAT): C'mon, Tommy. Tell me something.
TOMMY: Yeah, I'll tell ya something. You can take that thing back to where you found it. And you can leave the coffee in the pot. I can pour that myself. I can wake myself up, too. Paddy's stung but covers it amiably.
PADDY: OK. Hurt my knees coming up and down those stairs anyway.
PADDY (CONT'D): Coffee pot's on til 0-500, then I dump it.
MARINE #1: Damn dude, that's brutal. LANCE CORPORAL MARK BRADFORD (20s) walks up to see what the commotion is all about.
BRADFORD: What's that?
MARINE #2: "Mad Dog" Grimes gettin' tuned up by some dude in a gym in Pittsburgh.
BRADFORD: Who's "Mad Dog" Grimes?
MARINE #2: Shit, Bradford. The stuff you don't know amazes me.
(OFF COMPUTER): Oh my god, did you see that?
BRADFORD: Wait, rewind that. One of the Marines rewinds the video. Bradford looks at the image in disbelief, then races out of the tent.
BRADFORD: AV, I need to see the tape!
AV: What tape?
BRADFORD: The tape. AV drops his cards, rushes to his bunk, pulls out a steel container loaded with VIDEOTAPES and sifts through it. They are labeled by day and month. AV finds what he's looking for, loads it into the camera, and hits PLAY.
BRADFORD: Freeze. AV holds the "Pause" button down as Bradford looks at the screen in disbelief. It's definitely Tommy.
BRADFORD (CONT'D): That's him. That's him.
FRANK: Let the music sink in to you. This is Beethoven. Breathe. Breathe. As Frank teaches, Brendan walks in the door. The great trainer notices him and walks over.
FRANK (CONT'D): Do I know you? I think I know you. They embrace warmly.
FRANK (CONT'D): Long time, brother.
BRENDAN: Liking the place, Frank.
FRANK: Thank you, brother. (off Brazilian fighter) You see this beast? Marco Santos? I'm training him for Sparta.
BRENDAN: Amazing, man.
FRANK: Come on back. The two head for the offices at the back of the gym.
FRANK: You look good, brother. How're the girls?
BRENDAN: Good. Good. I had another little one. Rosie.
FRANK: I know. Johnny C. told me she was in the hospital for a bit. I was gonna call, but then time went by. I don't know. I'm a piece of shit. I should have called.
BRENDAN: It's alright.
FRANK: No, Brendan. I'm sorry.
BRENDAN: It's all good. She's good now. Frank looks at his old friend. Smiles warmly.
FRANK: It's great to see you, man. So everything's going good?
BRENDAN: Yeah. Well, I've got a little problem. The guys at the bank want to take my house away. That's kind of why I came to see you, actually. Frank considers what he's hearing.
FRANK: I've got most of my dough tied up in this joint, but how much do you need?
BRENDAN: I didn't come here for a loan, Frank.
(BEAT): I was hoping you'd train me.
FRANK: Train you for what?
BRENDAN: I want to get back in the cage. Frank starts smiling. Leans back in his seat. Then he sees Brendan is not smiling with him.
FRANK: You're serious?
BRENDAN: I just won an event the other night.
FRANK: Ah, you won an event. (off bruised face) That's what this is. Let me guess, it was in a parking lot. DJ from the local radio station. Couple of ring card girls you wouldn't bang on a dare. Am I right? Brendan smiles.
BRENDAN: Ish.
FRANK: Ish. Brendan. I love you. I do. But why would I train you? When you were in shape and on the right side of 30 you were barely a .500 fighter. You never listened to me. You never listened to anyone. These guys are animals. I mean, you're a teacher, right? What're you gonna do? You're gonna come down here for a couple days a week after detention? You're gonna skip out of the girl's volleyball game early?
BRENDAN: I've got loads of time. Time's not an issue. The parking lot thing kinda got me suspended. I need to keep working the smokers.
FRANK: Tess know about this? (off Brendan's nod) Yeah? `Cause the last time you fought, I got read the riot act sitting in a hospital waiting room. You remember that?
BRENDAN: No. I was unconscious. The two friends share a laugh.
FRANK: She's not gonna come down here with the two puppies, screaming at Frank?
BRENDAN: It's not gonna happen. Come on. Whattya say, Frank?
FRANK: What do I say? What am I gonna say to you? No? I mean, all my time is wrapped up with Marco. You come down, I'll throw you in the rotation, you spar with these guys, no problem. But I can't promise you much more than that, Brendan.
BRENDAN: That's all I need. Brendan stands up. Shakes Frank's hand.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): I appreciate it.
FRANK: Let me know when you're coming down.
BRENDAN: Well, I'm just gonna go get my stuff from the car.
FRANK: Now? Brendan puts his dukes up and smiles as Frank shakes his head.
PADDY: Hey, Brendan. It's me, Pop.
BRENDAN: What're you doing here?
PADDY: I have some news for you.
BRENDAN: Something wrong with your hands? Paddy shakes his head, unsure what he means.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): If there's nothing wrong with your hands then there's no reason for you not to phone. That's the deal.
PADDY: Yeah, I forgot--
BRENDAN: Phone or mail, Pop. Non negotiable. Paddy holds his hands out, palms down.
PADDY: Hey Brendan, have you ever seen my hands so steady? Have you?
BRENDAN: I'm going inside.
PADDY: I've got a thousand days. A thousand days sober today.
BRENDAN: Well, that's great, Pop. But it doesn't change anything.
PADDY: What do you mean it doesn't change anything? Have a heart, Brendan. Paddy's words set Brendan off. A side of him we haven't seen before emerges. He approaches his father fiercely.
BRENDAN: You listen to me. You take your have-a-heart bullshit and you run it down the road. Run it out on someone who doesn't know you like I do.
PADDY: C'mon, Brendan. I thought maybe we could break bread. Open some lines of communication.
BRENDAN: You got two lines of communication, the telephone and the post office. Just because you decide it's a special day, it doesn't make it one for me. I got a wife and kids inside and they're waiting for me, so I don't have time for whatever this is.
PADDY: I know you got a wife and kids in there. I got a grand-daughter I haven't seen in three years and another I haven't even ever met.
BRENDAN: Why is that, Pop? Why is that? Do you remember having anything to do with that? Paddy nods. Casts his eyes down in shame.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): That shit you pulled. Never again. And all the shit I saw growing up? That doesn't happen here. Brendan looks at the reformed Paddy, a measure of sympathy on his face. Then he heads for the house.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): Take care of yourself. As he's halfway through the yard, Paddy calls out.
PADDY: Tommy's back. Brendan stops in his tracks. He turns and looks at his Dad.
PADDY (CONT'D): He's in the `Burgh.
BRENDAN: Tommy's in Pittsburgh?
PADDY: He came to see me.
BRENDAN: He came to see you?
PADDY: He's over at the house. We're doing a little training at Fitzy's. Remember Fitzy's? It ain't Fitzy's anymore. Brendan walks closer. Incredulous.
BRENDAN: You and Tommy are training together?
BRENDAN (CONT'D): Tommy Conlon.
PADDY: Riordan. He's using your mother's maiden name now.
BRENDAN: I know what her name is.
PADDY: I thought you'd want to know he's back. That's why I drove all the way over here.
BRENDAN: I thought you came to break bread over a thousand days?
PADDY: That too. Brendan looks at him. Considers.
BRENDAN: Did he say if he wants to see me?
PADDY: He doesn't say much. He's just not that happy kid he was.
BRENDAN: Wow, look at you. Mister inside man. Paddy frowns.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): You and Tommy training together like nothing ever happened. This is unbelievable. Now I know what you're really doing here.
PADDY: What's that?
BRENDAN: You came to gloat.
PADDY: I did not come to gloat. I came to get my son back.
BRENDAN: Well, there you go. You got your son back.
PADDY: I'm talking about you, Bren--
BRENDAN: You got your son back. Brendan starts to walk away, then turns around again.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): You know, part of the reason I stuck around was `cause I thought I'd finally get you all to myself. But you didn't have any interest in training me. Tommy was the one.
PADDY: Ah, Brendan. I was a drunk. I mean, you know. I'm sorry.
BRENDAN: Forget it. You were always a front runner. You never had any interest in underdogs. But I was your son.
PADDY: You are my son.
BRENDAN: Am I?
PADDY: Yeah, you are. I'm just asking you to find just a little space in your heart to forgive me.
BRENDAN: Yeah. Alright. I forgive you. But I do not trust you. Tell Tommy this is where I am if he wants to see me.
PADDY: Alright. But they're not different things. You've gotta trust to
BRENDAN: Goodnight, Pop.
PADDY: My God, is that Emily? Boy, she's grown, Brendan. Is that Rosie? Brendan keeps walking. Opens his door to step inside.
ROSIE: Daddy, who is that?
BRENDAN: Just some nice old man. Brendan closes the door, leaving the heartbroken Paddy alone in the yard.
JON ANIK: Huge news breaking here at ESPN. Koba is coming to America and will fight at Sparta. Universally considered to be the greatest pound for pound fighter that ever lived, the mighty, mythical Russian has never fought on U.S. soil in his legendary career... Mad Dog Grimes trains furiously under the watchful eye of Colt Boyd. When Colt sees Tommy approaching, he turns his attention away from Mad Dog.
COLT BOYD: Tommy? Got some news for ya. I got you into Sparta. Took some doing, but I made it happen.. (off no reaction from Tommy) Thank you and 10 percent is customary.
PILAR: Bueno?
TOMMY: Pilar. It's Tommy.
PILAR: Tommy! Dios mio! I can't believe it! How are you?
TOMMY: Good good. How you doin'?
PILAR: OK. You know me, Tommy.
(BEAT): I was getting really worried about you.
TOMMY: How're things? Kids are good?
PILAR: They're good. Maria's getting so big. She looks more like Manny every day.
TOMMY: How's little man?
PILAR: He's good. He's a good kid, Tommy. Takes care of his sister. He's a great kid. Everyone's good.
TOMMY: You know, Pilar, I haven't forgotten for one minute what I promised you. What I promised Manny. I've got an opportunity coming up to help you guys out. To take care of you guys.
PILAR: Whatever you can do, Tommy. I know Manny would really appreciate it. You worry too much. It's OK. We're hanging in there.
FRANK: No he did not tap you! Physics teacher! That's the best in the world there, son.
BRENDAN: You gonna be OK? Wanna grab a bite?
FRANK: Nah. I'm gonna head home. I gotta call the boys and break the news. I'll call you tomorrow. Frank heads off through the lot. Brendan reaches his car, stops, considers. Calls out to Frank while jogging toward him.
BRENDAN: Coach! Hey, I know this isn't a great time. And it's too bad about Marco. But what about me? Brendan looks hopefully at Frank, who shakes his head as he begins to open the door of his `70 Ford Bronco.
FRANK: You talking about Sparta? Brendan, please. You got a better chance of starting a boy band. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
BRENDAN: It's a grand prix tournament. Which means anything can happen. You know that as well as I do. Frank looks at him. Sees how serious Brendan is.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): They'll have to kill me to get me out of that cage.
FRANK: That's what I'm afraid of.
BRENDAN: Frank, I need this. You're real tight with those guys. You call them, they'll listen to you.
FRANK: You realize what you're asking me to do here, Brendan? We go down to AC and you get tapped out in five seconds, how does that benefit either one of us?
BRENDAN: That's not gonna happen.
FRANK: Not gonna happen. Wish I had a nickel for every time I heard that.
BRENDAN: It's not gonna happen. Frank breaks. Smiles. How can he say no?
FRANK: I'll make a call. Brendan grins and walks back toward his car.
BRENDAN: I love my coach!
(BEAT): That's unbelievable. I can't thank you enough. I don't know what to say. Alright, listen, I've gotta call you back. Alright, bye. Brendan hangs up the phone. Looks at Tess.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): I'm in. I'm going. A look of serious concern crosses Tess's face. She puts her hands on her hips.
TESS: Really? So that's your decision? You decided? `Cause I really enjoyed that conversation we just had about making that decision together. Brendan doesn't say anything. Knows she's right. And that he's about to get laid into.
TESS (CONT'D): You told me you were gonna fight guys that watched too much UFC. I saw that Koba dude on TV, and he's the guy they're watching.
BRENDAN: It's a lot of money, Tess.
TESS: I don't give a shit about the money, Brendan. I told you that. We're gonna end up cashing in your life insurance policy before we pick up that prize money.
BRENDAN: You don't think I can do it.
TESS: I think you can get killed.
BRENDAN: I'm not gonna get killed.
TESS: Fine, you're not going to get killed. But can you promise me you're not going to get hurt? You're not gonna end up in the hospital? You're not gonna end up paralyzed? We'll have no prize money. No house. Payments for
BRENDAN: Tess, I can promise you this: if I don't try, they're gonna take the house. How's that for a promise? No response from Tess, who has tears in her eyes.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): So, I'm gonna go, OK? But I'd really love it if you'd be with me on this. Tess looks at her husband. Wants to support him, but can't.
TESS: I'm not gonna watch you fight again. I'm not.
(BEAT): I'm gonna get the girls breakfast. Tess starts walking back toward the house. She marches up the lawn without turning back, leaving Brendan, alone, in front of his house. He looks at the toys strewn across the yard. Surveys the neighborhood. He's going to Sparta.
CALLEN: J.J., you've made a fortune with your hedge funds, yet you turned your back on Wall Street and dedicated your life to making Sparta happen. Tell us, why is this tournament so important to you?
SHERIDAN: Thank you, J.J. And here's something fans never thought they'd see: Koba is here! The legend arriving to fight on U.S. soil for the very first time... The great and mighty KOBA emerges from a white stretch limo, trailed by his ENTOURAGE of tough-looking RUSSIANS. FLASHBULBS pop. REPORTERS swarm. It looks like a movie premiere out there and Koba's the star.
FRANK: Hey. Where'd you go? You can't leave me like that. They wanna talk to you, not me. Brendan looks past Frank. Tommy has risen and headed toward the exit, trailed by Paddy, who calls after him.
PADDY: Tommy!
TOMMY: I'm takin' a walk.
(BEAT): Brendan.
BRENDAN: Been looking all over for you. How's it going?
TOMMY: It's going.
BRENDAN: I was thinking maybe we could grab a coffee.
TOMMY: I don't drink coffee. Whattya want?
BRENDAN: You don't want to go sit down somewhere?
TOMMY: I'm good right here.
BRENDAN: Shit, Tommy. How was I supposed to know I was never gonna see you guys again?
TOMMY: You were briefed. You had the information. You chose the old man and the girl.
BRENDAN: She wasn't some girl. I married her. She's my wife. Brendan reaches into his pocket and removes a recent Christmas PHOTO of Tess, Emily, and Rosie from his wallet.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): (handing Tommy the picture) That's Tess. And that's Emily and Rosie. They're your nieces, Tommy. Tommy glances at the photo impasssively and hands it back.
TOMMY: Don't know `em.
BRENDAN: I know you don't know them. Of course you don't know them.
TOMMY: Why am I looking at pictures of people I don't know?
BRENDAN: Because that's my family.
TOMMY: And who are you exactly?
BRENDAN: I'm your brother, man.
TOMMY: You were in the Corps?
BRENDAN: What?
TOMMY: I said I didn't know you were in the Corps.
BRENDAN: I wasn't in the Corps.
TOMMY: Then you ain't no brother to me. My brother was in the Corps. With that, Tommy walks briskly away from Brendan and up the beach. His brother runs after him.
BRENDAN: Jesus, Tommy. I was a 16 year old kid. What the hell did I know?
TOMMY: I don't know what you know. Why don't you go ask your girlfriend about it?
BRENDAN: She's my wife, Tommy. So that's it? I stay with Tess and I never get to see you guys again? Not a single phone call? Nothing? No response from Tommy. He's a wall.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): God, man, I don't understand this. You won't forgive me, but you'll forgive Pop?
TOMMY: Shit. He's just some old vet I train with. He means nothing to me. From what I hear he means nothing to you, either, so you got balls talking about forgiveness.
BRENDAN: That's got nothing to do with forgiveness. I've got a family to protect. Everything I do is for them. Tommy smirks. Walks away again.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): But I forgave Pop. Just like I forgave you and Mom.
TOMMY: You forgave us?
BRENDAN: Yeah.
TOMMY: I'm not surprised you made the tournament, Brendan. You got some stones.
BRENDAN: I fell in love, Tommy. What the hell was I supposed to do?
TOMMY: You were supposed to stick to the plan. You were supposed to come with us. Mom needed you. I needed you. You were my big brother and you bailed on me. The words hit Brendan hard.
TOMMY (CONT'D): Hey, I'm glad you stayed and everything worked out for you, Brendan. See, you leave, you get the opposite. You leave, you get to bury people.
BRENDAN: You're not the only one who suffered, Tommy. I didn't even know she was sick. I never even got the chance to say goodbye to my own mother. You had no right to keep that from me! That was not your decision to make!
TOMMY: You know what? You walk around with your pictures in your wallet and you're all, I forgive you, I forgive Pop. I forgive everyone. But you know what? You're full of shit. Tommy and Brendan are right in each other's faces. Standing on the knife's edge of violence. They hold the stare down for a few long seconds, like two fighters about to go to war.
TOMMY (CONT'D): Are we done, Brendan? Are we finished? Tommy and Brendan look at each other with burning intensity. Too much baggage and both too much and nothing left to say. Finally, Tommy turns and walks on down the beach.
JOE ZITO: You realize you're supposed to seek my wise counsel when school's actually in session, right? All four of them laugh nervously. Working their way up to something.
STEPHON: We want to use the auditorium this weekend to watch Mr. C in Sparta.
TITO: What do you say?
JOE ZITO: Let me get this straight. You want to use the auditorium to watch a suspended teacher engage in the activity he was suspended for? Am I hearing this correctly?
(BEAT): I gotta talk to your parents. You guys might need to be in summer school after all.
NASH: But everyone wants to see it.
KC: The gym's the only place that's big enough.
JOE ZITO: It's never gonna happen.
STEPHON: What if we get a petition?
TITO: Yeah. We'll get the whole school to sign it.
NASH: The power of democracy!
JOE ZITO: Look, I appreciate that you guys love your teacher. I really do. But there is nothing I can do for you. Zito turns and heads back to his desk. The kids, dejected, leave the office and walk off down the hallway.
CALLEN: Welcome, I'm Bryan Callen along with best-selling fight author Sam Sheridan. Sam, when J.J. Riley conceived Sparta he wanted to create, quite simply, the biggest Mixed Martial Arts spectacle in history.
SHERIDAN: Five million dollars, Bryan. Five million dollars. J.J. Riley put his money where his mouth is and put up the biggest purse this sport has ever seen.
CALLEN: It's unprecedented, Sam. As is the hoopla surrounding Tommy Riordan, the war hero who has become an overnight sensation...
OFFICIAL: Five minutes, Paddy.
CALLEN: Sam. He ripped the door off a tank!
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Gentlemen, you've been given your instructions. I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this. In the crowd, two sections of MARINES in full dress uniforms wave flags and raise about as much hell as humanly possible for Tommy, who returns to his corner. Paddy attempts to give him some advice, but Tommy is not listening.
OFFICIAL: Show time. On the TV monitor, Tommy's annihilating knockout of Francisco Barbosa plays. Then, in the distance, the strains of CLASSICAL MUSIC can be heard. Brendan looks at Frank, who smiles and puts his hands on Brendan's shoulders.
FRANK: You can do this. He grabs the nervous Brendan's head between his hands.
FRANK (CONT'D): I want to hear you say it.
BRENDAN: I can do this.
FRANK: Then let's go do this.
PADDY: Go get `em, son. Brendan barely acknowledges Paddy and keeps walking. Frank looks at Brendan with a "Who the hell is that?" expression. As they approach the dark lights of the arena, Beethoven continues to BOOM out over the loud speakers.
CALLEN: Classical music is about as fitting to this setting as Brendan Conlon is to this tournament. In fact, let me show you something. Callen holds up a plastic bag with water and a GOLDFISH inside.
CALLEN (CONT'D): This is Brendan Conlon. He's a feeder fish, and he's about to get dropped into a shark tank. Brendan gets greased up, then climbs into the cage.
SHERIDAN: C'mon, give the guy a break. At least we've seen him fight before. He was in the UFC. We remember him.
CALLEN: I remember him, too. I remember him being very unmemorable.
FRANK: You asked for it. Brendan grins and looks out at the rabid crowd.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Alright, gentleman, you've been given your instructions, I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this. The fighters head to their corners and wait for the bell.
FRANK: Have some fun, baby. At the sound of the bell, "Midnight" Le comes out hard and strong. He repeatedly KICKS Brendan in the leg and batters him with STRIKES. His power is overwhelming Brendan.
ZITO: Move! You gotta move!
ZITO: C'mon, Brendan, get outta there!
FRANK: Get out of there! Get out of there! Brendan tries to pry Midnight's hands off him. No use.
FRANK: Beautiful! Beautiful! He doesn't know what hit him! Brendan grins at Frank's positive spin on things, then looks across the cage at Midnight Le, who glares at Brendan.
SHERIDAN: It just did, Bryan.
ZITO: He tapped him out! He tapped him out! He did it! He did it! He did it!
CALLEN: Very technical finish, but come on, that's a fluke. A jubilant Brendan raises his arms in victory. The crowd responds to the gutsy underdog.
SHERIDAN: I hope you got a receipt for your goldfish.
TESS: Yes! She starts dancing around the room, kissing her phone.
PADDY: You can do it, Brendan. Brendan glares at him and marches toward the cage.
FRANK: Take him down! Brendan grabs Kruller and FLIPS him to the canvas. Then he spins for an ARM BAR, a move similar to one seen earlier in the smoker fights.
PADDY: That's it, Brendan!
PADDY: Way to go, Brendan!
BRENDAN: I'd doing this!
PADDY: OK, son.
BRENDAN: I'm doing it!
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Gentlemen, you ready? You ready? Let's go to war! The bell RINGS and Tommy goes right after Santana and starts administering a beating. He bullies him into the cage and starts raining BLOWS all over him.
PADDY: Can't sleep, huh? Tommy feeds the machine and pulls. Says nothing. Paddy sits down in front of a slot machine next to Tommy.
PADDY (CONT'D): I know that other thing's bothering the hell out of you, but I'm proud of you. What you did for that kid in the tank? That was really something.
TOMMY: How about deserting my unit? Is that really something, too? Yeah. I was on my way outta country when I came across those guys. What was I supposed to do, let `em drown?
PADDY: No.
(BEAT): What'd you do?
TOMMY: What'd I do? I took off. Paddy starts putting things together.
PADDY: That's why you go by Riordan. That's why the press can't find your service records. Tommy doesn't respond.
PADDY (CONT'D): What the hell happened over there, Tommy?
TOMMY: That is none of your business.
PADDY: Come on, kiddo. I've been there. I've done it. I've seen it. You can trust me. I'll understand.
TOMMY: Spare me the compassionate father routine, Pop. The suit don't fit.
PADDY: I'm really trying here, Tommy.
TOMMY: You're trying? Now? Where were you when it mattered? I needed this guy back when I was a kid. I don't need you now. It's too late now. Everything's already happened. You and Brendan don't seem to understand that. Let me explain something to you: the only thing I have in common with Brendan Conlon is that we have absolutely no use for you. Paddy's shaken. He can't fathom the anger in Tommy, yet he knows he's responsible. It's written all over him. Tears well up in his eyes. They seem to make Tommy madder.
TOMMY (CONT'D): Look at you. Yeah, I was right. I think I liked you better when you were a drunk. At least you had some balls then. Not like now. Tip toeing around like some beggar with your cup out. Take it somewhere else, old man. Tommy reaches down and picks up a plastic CUP made for holding coins and dips it into his tray, filling it with
TOMMY (CONT'D): In fact, you know what? Here's a cup. Why don't you take this and go buy some more of your shitty tapes?
TOMMY (CONT'D): Go back to the room and listen to some more fish stories no one gives a shit about. Go on, get outta here.
(BEAT): Get the fuck outta here! Tommy whips the bucket toward his father, splashing COINS into his face. A stunned Paddy, tears streaming down his face, walks off. A handful of late-night GAMBLERS look at Tommy, who stares angrily ahead and bounces a quarter off his slot machine as his destroyed father limps away.
PADDY: God pity `em! All shall perish except me! You bastards! Stop the ship, you bastards! He staggers around the room, giving a fragmented soliloquy to no audience.
PADDY (CONT'D): Ishmael! God pity `em! Stop the ship! Please stop the ship! Somebody help `em! Suddenly the adjoining door swings open. Tommy, hair disheveled, looks in and sees Paddy's state. The old man thrusts his hand up in the air and screams at Tommy.
PADDY (CONT'D): Ahab! You Godless sonofabitch! Paddy staggers over and gets in Tommy's face, his own face blotched and contorted. The old Paddy Conlon revealed. The monster from the past.
PADDY (CONT'D): You stop the ship, you Godless sonofabitch!
PADDY (CONT'D): Captain. Oh captain. Stop the ship. For the love of God. We're lost. The old man is running out of steam. He begins WEEPING.
PADDY (CONT'D): Please stop the ship. Paddy wobbles, tears streaming down his face. Tommy looks at him. The first time we've seen anything resembling compassion on that relentless face of his. He HUGS his father and pries the whiskey bottle from his hand
PADDY (CONT'D): We're lost. We're all lost, Tommy. We'll never make it back. Tommy pulls his father back on to the bed. Puts his arms around his chest and tries to quiet the old man. It's a tender moment, and it seems as if Tommy is only able to relate to the brutal, former version of the father he knew.
PADDY (CONT'D): I always loved you. You know that, don't you Tommy? I always loved you. You and your brother. My two boys. Tommy continues to hold his father as sunlight streams into the room. The end of a very long night.
MARINES: From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli, we will fight our country's battles in the air, on land, and sea... At cageside, Sheridan leans over to Callen, raising his voice to be heard above the Marines.
SHERIDAN: It sounds like VJ Day in Times Square, Bryan. I've never seen anything like it! Tommy climbs up the stairs and into the cage. He turns and nods at the Marines.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Alright gentlemen, you've been given your instructions. I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this. In the center of the cage, Mad Dog is practically spitting in Tommy's face. Tommy's eyelids droop. He could not be less intimidated.
MAD DOG: It's not gonna happen again. Callen and Sheridan look on as the two fighters retreat to their corners. The anticipation in the arena is incredible.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Gentlemen, you ready? You ready? Let's go to war!
COLT BOYD: Stop it! Stop the fight! It's such a savage beating, so malicious, that Rosenthal has to climb on Tommy's back to get him off of Mad Dog. If his mother is indeed in the crowd, she couldn't recognize him now. Beaten to an absolute pulp.
FRANK: You've got a visitor. Second row, 10 o'clock. Buzzing in the arena. The lights about to go down for the entrance of Koba. Before they do, Brendan looks up to see a familiar face at cageside. Tess. He can't believe his eyes.
FRANK (CONT'D): You alright with that? Brendan looks at his wife. She smiles broadly. Mouths the words "I love you." Brendan grins. Kisses his glove and presses it against the cage. As he does, the lights go out inside the arena and ominous RUSSIAN MUSIC BLARES.
FRANK: I want you to look right at him when he comes in here. Don't take your eyes off him. Brendan nods, then looks at Tess. Drawing strength. Frank leans over the railing and taps fists with his fighter.
FRANK (CONT'D): I'm proud of you brother. This is your cage. Finally, the creepy music subsides, and the great Russian climbs into the cage. He's massive, and the crowd stares at him like an exotic animal. Josh Rosenthal calls Brendan and Koba to the center of the cage. The Russian looks at Brendan with the cold, dispassionate eyes of a killer. Brendan does his best to hold his gaze.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Alright, gentlemen, you've been given your instructions. I expect a clean fight.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Gentlemen, you ready? You ready? Let's go to war! Koba comes straight at Brendan. His speed and strength are astonishing.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Let's go to war! Koba comes right after Brendan, and it's soon more of the same. Power slams. Brutal strikes. Brendan's face is carved up and battered. He tries to go for a take down, but Koba snuffs it, then lifts Brendan off the mat again and carries him through the air. Frank screams, but there's nothing he can do. Brendan is brutally SLAMMED into the ground.
FRANK: Sit down. Breathe. (grabbing Brendan's face) Look at me! Look at me! Why are we here, Brendan? Why are we here? Are we here to win this fight? You tell me, `cause if we're not, I'll throw in the towel right now. We'll get Tess and we will go home. You don't knock him out, you lose the fight. Understand me? You don't knock him out, you don't have a home. Josh Rosenthal claps his hands. Frank takes his cue to leave, but not before giving Brendan one last look. It's now or never. Brendan looks across the cage at Koba. Steels himself.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Let's go to war! Brendan comes out and meets Koba in the center of the cage, but the Russian resumes his supremacy.
FRANK: Crank it! Crank it! The Russian tries to squirm away, but he can't. His face is contorted in PAIN. The cageside OFFICIAL indicates there's only 10 seconds left in the fight.
(BEAT): You know, my Manny used to say Tommy was the brother he never had.
TESS: What are you gonna do?
BRENDAN: I'm gonna fight him.
FRANK: One more time. Brendan climbs into the cage as the house LIGHTS DIM. The crowd is going bonkers. And they EXPLODE when Tommy appears at the end of the tunnel with his hoodie up and begins his march toward the cage. The Marines shower him with cheers and "Hoo-ahs." The girls scream. The rest of the audience stamps their feet and chants his name. But he acknowledges no one, and the hard look on his face never wavers.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Gentlemen, this is the final. Five rounds. I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this. As Rosenthal finishes his instructions, Brendan peers into Tommy's empty corner.
BRENDAN: Where's Pop? Tommy turns without answering. All business. Brendan returns to his corner. Looks at Tess. So much emotion on her face.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Gentlemen, are you ready? Are you ready? Let's go to war! Tommy comes right after his brother. Just like with his previous three opponents. A natural wrecking machine. Frank screams at Brendan to stay calm, but Tommy is all over him, POUNDING on him with savage intensity. As bad as the other fights were for Brendan, this one is worse.
TESS: What was that!
FRANK: C'mon, Josh! Brendan lays on the ground as Josh Rosenthal pulls Tommy off him and admonishes him for the cheap shot. Tommy stares at Brendan. You want more? Frank runs into the cage with the stool and Brendan limps over to him and sits down. Brendan stares at Tommy, who paces in his corner like a caged animal.
FRANK (CONT'D): Sit down. Look at me. Look at me, Brendan! Let it go! Breathe.
FRANK (CONT'D): Beethoven. He's coming hard, just like we planned. I want you to angle out, hit, and move.
BRENDAN: Angle out, hit, and move.
FRANK: Good. Breathe. Relax. He's not your brother, right? He's just a guy who's in the way. Josh Rosenthal claps his hands. It's time. Frank glares at him as he picks up the stool.
FRANK (CONT'D): I'm taking a little more time for the cheap shot! Do your job, Josh! Tess sits uncomfortably in her chair. Her husband's face is a mess. In front of her, Callen and Sheridan commiserate. J.J., the TapouT crew, and Colt Boyd look on. The electricity in the crowd is greater than ever. They want a champion.
FRANK: Switch! Switch! Tommy tries to pound Brendan out, but Brendan latches on to Tommy's arm, wraps his legs around him, and REVERSES position, just as he did with Midnight, the Dane, and Koba. Tommy is in deep trouble. Brendan pushes him face down on the canvas and cranks his shoulder. There's no escape.
BRENDAN: Tap, Tommy! Tommy SHRIEKS like an animal, but still won't quit. In fact, he elbows Brendan in the face in defiance. Brendan in turn cranks the shoulder even more. It's at the breaking point.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): Tap! The shoulder twists. Twists. And then, audible only to Tommy and Brendan, CRACK. Dislocated. Then the HORN ending the round.
BRENDAN: I popped his shoulder.
FRANK: Relax, breathe.
BRENDAN: I heard it tear.
FRANK: You popped his shoulder? Good. I want you to pop his other shoulder. This is not what Brendan wants to hear. He looks over to Josh Rosenthal.
BRENDAN: Josh!
FRANK: Hey! Hey! No Josh! Look at me! You got two rounds left! You need both rounds! Go in there, kick him in the head, take him down, and finish him! Rosenthal claps his hands. Frank exits the cage. The wounded Tommy stands in his corner, his ruined left arm hanging low. Brendan makes eye contact with him.
BRENDAN: Tommy! What are you doing?
TOMMY: Shut up! C'mon.
BRENDAN: What are you that crazy?
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Let's go to war! The BELL sounds. Round Four begins. Tommy throws useless right jabs. He's one handed and has no chance. Brendan stays away from him, not wanting to hurt his brother.
BRENDAN: What are you doing? It's over! Frank screams at Brendan from cageside to take the wounded Tommy out, but Brendan is reluctant.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): It's over, Tommy. C'mon. We don't have to do this. Tommy and Brendan circle each other. Tommy throwing rights and wincing in agony at any movement. Brendan stares at him. Everything about him says "Quit, Tommy." But Tommy won't.
FRANK: Finish him! You finish him! Tommy keeps throwing defiant right jabs at Brendan. Finally, with no choice, Brendan fires back. He batters the defenseless Tommy up against the cage and POUNDS away at him, blasting his left shoulder with punches that make Tommy wince in pain. It's anyone's guess how he can take it. Brendan presses his brother up against the cage. Begging him to quit. But Tommy merely responds by elbowing Brendan in the face again. This sets the older brother off, and he resumes pounding on Tommy until the HORN sounds and Rosenthal pulls Brendan away.
JOSH ROSENTHAL: Break! Break! Brendan heads back to his stool as Tommy leans against the cage in agony. The Marines scream for him, but his eyes are glazed over. It's unthinkable that he hasn't broken yet. From near cageside, Paddy looks to the corner and makes eye contact with Brendan. They exchange a small look of understanding. A NOD. They both know what needs to be done.
BRENDAN: I'm sorry, Tommy! I'm sorry! Tommy continues to struggle.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): Tap, Tommy! Tap! Tears pour down Tommy's face. Brendan is crushing his wind pipe. Tommy's eyes bulge.
BRENDAN (CONT'D): I love you, Tommy! I love you! Tommy, about to pass out, no more air to breathe, slowly opens his left hand, looks at Brendan, and TAPS his shoulder on the Conlon family crest. Finally submitting.
