MAP GRIDS: From the pages of a Thomas guide converge, overlap and re- configure across the screen. The endlessly ironic names of American suburbs parade before us, their violet territories marching forward like a bruise into dark green patches of forest and wilderness. Closer in on one last map grid which fades into a transparency of itself overlaid across the actual location of the suburb. The name of this housing development is "Pleasant Valley". The transparency fades out to reveal:
KENNETH: Steps back onto a A CHILD'S DOLL, crushing it underfoot. His ebullient mood changes quickly.
DELLA: SHOOT, KENNETH! That's Tammi's favorite doll. You should just swear properly and get it over with. Do you think the kids don't know what you mean?
KENNETH: You should just swear properly and get it over with. Do you think the kids don't know what you mean?
DELLA: I'm going to the mall for wrapping
KENNETH: What do you do all day, Della honey? Cause it sure isn't keeping house. This place is an eyesore. I'm mortgaged up to the eyeballs for this?
DELLA: Put the twins to bed by eight. Give them a chocolate cookie with their
KENNETH: Jesus, Della. Della honey, I'm
TAMMI: Mommy can I get an American Girl for Christmas?
TERRI: I want a raptor dinosaur, Mommy.
DELLA: You better leave Santa a note. It's only three days until Christmas.
TAMMI: Where are you going, Mommy?
DELLA: The Mall. One chocolate cookie each and then Daddy will read you a bedtime story.
TAMMI: Daddy's stories are lame. I want you to read us a story.
TERRI: Yeah Mommy, the one about the No, the cowgirls. Diamond Lil and Slingshot Kitty.
TAMMI: No, the cowgirls. Diamond Lil and Slingshot Kitty.
DELLA: Tomorrow night I'll read you the best bedtime story in the whole world. I promise.
DELLA: The car sputters again.
DELLA: I'll get right on that Kenneth honey. AFTER you stop drinking.
DELLA: MARY ( V.O. )
DELLA: Oh, hey.
DELLA: Sure. How are you?
DELLA: How'd you get my cell number?
DELLA: And how'd that go? Did he give you an earful for disturbing his ninety ninth viewing of Lethal Weapon
DELLA: Well, with the way you flaunt your double D boob job at the free fun PTA events that's hardly a
DELLA: Oh nothing, Mary.
DELLA: Well that wouldn't be hard. Mary, do you need something? Cause I gotta go.
DELLA: TOOL SCHOOL?, Ouch, Mary. Do It Yourself Mechanics is without a doubt the most interesting thing in my life right now. I carry my beloved toolbox in the trunk at all times.
DELLA: Sorry, Mary, I'm skipping this week. Kenneth's parents are coming to stay for Christmas. You know how it is.
DELLA: You check with her, Mary.
DELLA: You too. Bah Humbug.
DELLA: Bye, Mary.
DELLA: The Learning Academy. Spring Please hold for that number.
DELLA: Hi Meghan. It's Della Myers.
DELLA: Yes I knew.
DELLA: Frustrated, Della turns on the radio. It is some innocuous local ad.
LOCAL AD: Pleasant Valley Dream Homes. The lowest crime rate in the US. Call 1-
DELLA: Can you leave word for Mike. I'm going to miss tomorrow's Mechanic's class. It's just the one time.
DELLA: I guess some people find it boring.
DELLA: Yes you will.unless I run off and become an outlaw or something.
MEGHAN: Merry Christmas
DELLA: You too.
DELLA: Where are you? Grand Central Hold on, I'll take the phone
CASSIE: Hold on, I'll take the phone
DELLA: Scene 21Page 14
FRICK!: Scene 21Page 14
DELLA: I almost rear-ended a car. Cassie?
DELLA: Huh? One of those rubber balls, I think. I'm headed over there now. Ran out of Christmas wrapping paper. Would you believe it?
DELLA: Aw shoot. My cell battery's dying.
DELLA: No..I'm just. I mean I'm. Oh
DELLA: It can't be that bad?
DELLA: A latte's fine. Let's meet at the fountain opposite Victoria's
DELLA: My battery's going. I'm a block away. See you in five minutes.
DELLA: Okay, okay!
MOTHER: Watch where you're going!
DELLA: The Mother's weighed down with shopping bags. She glares at Della and drags her kids across the aisle in front of her. Della sighs, drives down the second aisle. An Escape midway down the row blocks traffic. It's waiting for a Subaru to pull out so it can take the spot.
DELLA: Lucky son of a ...
ANGRY DRIVER: If you think you're gonna steal my spot, think again, asshole!
DELLA: The Rent-a-Cop stops directing and approaches the car.
DELLA: Do you know where I can definitely find parking?
DELLA: Scene 31Page 19
DELLA: She shakes the boot off and looks over at the mall. It's at least a half mile away, glimmering in the distance. She sets off marching across the lot, taking what seems to be the most direct route. Maybe she can shake off this mood by the time she gets inside. She passes the Plymouth, turns, stares back at it. The car is dirty gold and riddled with rust holes with a vinyl roof that's almost peeled away. She walks up close, tries to decipher the plate, but it's caked with mud. Annoyance rises like bile in her throat.
GREAT!: She shakes the boot off and looks over at the mall. It's at least a half mile away, glimmering in the distance. She sets off marching across the lot, taking what seems to be the most direct route. Maybe she can shake off this mood by the time she gets inside. She passes the Plymouth, turns, stares back at it. The car is dirty gold and riddled with rust holes with a vinyl roof that's almost peeled away. She walks up close, tries to decipher the plate, but it's caked with mud. Annoyance rises like bile in her throat.
DELLA: Della arrives at the fountain. A piddling jet of dirty water gurgles from the mouth of a bored mermaid and streams down into the shallow pool full of nickels and dimes. She scans the crowd but there's no sign of Cassie. Della sits at the edge of the fountain. She checks her watch then checks out the people milling around in front of Victoria's Secret, where mannequins in skimpy festive underwear are propped seductively in the window displays. Still no sign of Cassie. She's about to make a wish and throw a quarter into the fountain when a Red Cross worker shakes her "Save the Children" tin at her. Della sticks the quarter into the tin instead.
DELLA: No thanks. Not my size.
DELLA: A latte please?
DELLA: Forget it, just the coffee.
DELLA: Della, two L's.
DELLA: Lynn Monroe!
LYNN: I knew it was you, Della. I haven't seen you since college. You left to marry some handsome jock and we never heard from you again.
DELLA: Something like that. Do you live around here now?
LYNN: David and I just bought this divine house in Pleasant Valley. Do you know it? Great for the kids.
DELLA: Oh, we have two kids. Twins, Tammi and Terri.
LYNN: Why that's fantastic. Listen Della, it's been great talking to you but I have to go get my hair done! David and I are going out tomorrow night for a romantic dinner. I just bought this gorgeous teddy from Victoria's Secret.
DELLA: It's a pity they don't have any "To a bastard at Christmas" cards.
DELLA: God planned it for Christmas Day just to tick me off.
DELLA: PH SALES ASSISTANT
DELLA: How come the ladies' bathroom is out of order on a night like this?
CLEANING LADY: The one at the other side of the mall is open, Ma'am.
CAROL SINGERS: Silent Night. Holy Night. All is calm. All is bright.
DELLA: Good Lord! What now?
DELLA: What the hell are you playing at?
HUEY: Trust the nigga, we not playin'.
DELLA: What are you? The world's first homeless United Nations Boy Band?
HUEY: Hell, yeah. We just wanna do shows and bone hoes.
TOMAS: And when yo done eating we gonna staple that bitch mouth closed.
CHUCKIE: Now, now, my little brothers.
HUEY: It gitting cold, Chuckie. Game's not worth the dime.
DELLA: ( incredulous ) Chuckie? At least your parents have a sense of humor.
CHUCKIE: Parents? I ain't got no parents. I named myself.
DELLA: What? If you hadn't parked like an asshole, we wouldn't be arguing about it right now.
VINH: Whoah Lady!
TOMAS: Keep right on talking that gang a shit, chinga. Yo crimes against the click are digging yo grave deep.
HUEY: We already in hell.
DELLA: Not if these delinquents move their barge so I can back up.
CHUCKIE: Nah. We not in the mood.
TOMAS: Say yo prayers old man.
CHUCKIE: These Rent-a-Pig companies are too lame to give their foot soldiers any ammo. Liability laws and all that. Tough shit!
VINH: She's busting a move!
CHUCKIE: She ain't going nowhere. We got her Ford blocked in, right?
HUEY: I don't know nothing.
TOMAS: ( muttering ) Dar candela por el culo!
CHUCKIE: I can just put one through her windshield, right?
DELLA: Please God. Don't overcorrect.
TOMAS: Chinga tu madre. She making her
VINH: But Chuckie's staring at the bloody mess he made, with a faraway look in his eyes, like he's disassociating. Vinh throws down the stub of his cigarette, follows Tomas into the Plymouth. Tomas guns the engine.
HUEY: She on her cell right now calling the pigs.
CHUCKIE: You gone buck wild, nigga? We ain't going down for shit.
HUEY: You ain't earned the right to call me a nigga. And that goes for all you haters.
CHUCKIE: Easy my G. Easy.
DELLA: Side mirror. It's the Plymouth. She presses the accelerator down harder. The engine revs. In the rearview there's a sudden flash above her rear left headlight. And another.
DELLA: The Plymouth must have skidded and got stuck in the mud.
DELLA: She tries to manually lift it. But it's heavy with the weight of pine branches. Voices drift towards her.
TOMAS: Hell, no.
HUEY: Scene 77Page 41
HUEY: Our new sneakers are stuck up in the dirt like they was last years.
CHUCKIE: Soon as we taken care o' Mrs. Podunk you and the Spanish dancer can hit the next mall. But first you fakers best haul this rider out of the filth.
VINH: Stupid ass car got nowhere else to go. There's nothing but trees up Screw the car, Chuckie. Case you forgot we got a witness on the loose! I ain't want to end up in the clink as some chimp's prison Trust me dog, hoe's going down execution style before we see the other side o' them bars.
TOMAS: Screw the car, Chuckie. Case you forgot we got a witness on the loose! I ain't want to end up in the clink as some chimp's prison Trust me dog, hoe's going down execution style before we see the other side o' them bars.
CHUCKIE: Trust me dog, hoe's going down execution style before we see the other side o' them bars.
TOMAS: Yo talk a real mob threat, Chuckie. But what if she gone already?
CHUCKIE: She ain't gone.
CHUCKIE: Won't be long before we find her now. This baby could spot a needle in a haystack!
HUEY: We caught up in this bitch's life like a soap opera. We could just bail, blast out of town like we was never here.
CHUCKIE: This boy loves weed so much he tried to marry Juana.
HUEY: Ain't no one cares about the Rent-a- Pig. He just collateral damage to the peeps at the mall.
CHUCKIE: Listen up skippy: SHE THE ONLY
HUEY: But if we hit the road now we'll be five hundred miles away before they find him..we could be drinking cold beer and swimmin' in the Atlantic..just like you promised.
CHUCKIE: We gotta take care of her. When she gone. The problem gone. Right? We'll head off then, Huey, just like I said.
HUEY: We ain't gonna make it, are we Chuckie? I ain't never gonna see it. It's over for that, isn't it Chuckie? Just say it.
CHUCKIE: GET REAL Huey! And shut the fuck up about the stupid ocean.
HUEY: No Chuckie, you ain't.
HUEY: Someone call her mama tell her to lay out her black dress.
TOMAS: Is she dead already?
VINH: Musta gone been thrown through the
CHUCKIE: She ain't dead. Look! Her footprints are all around.
DELLA: ( under her breath )
DELLA!: Della recoils. Did she just hallucinate? How the hell do they know her name? Can they see her? Or is he just shouting her name randomly into the night? Her eyes dart right then left then back again. Nothing. She runs down a row of house foundations.
TOMAS: Where'd little red riding hood git She ain't leaving any bread crumbs that's for sure.
VINH: She ain't leaving any bread crumbs that's for sure.
HUEY: When a nigga hungry, Imma wolf.
BOOM: 96 96
CHUCKIE: Peek a boo!
HUEY: Yo left without yo goodbye kiss.
CHUCKIE: You a window shopper little brother. You ain't never even done the old in and out before.
HUEY: Imma just a young playa tryin' to put my bid in.
TOMAS: Don't worry, when we done wit you we send yo back in yo trunk to Mr.
CHUCKIE: Back off five minutes, my Ghetto
VINH: Yeah, like how to quit mouthing if you wanna avoid drama.
CHUCKIE: You must be wondering how we come to know your name.
HUEY: Yo think she carrying the big notes, maybe some ice?
CHUCKIE: Nah, it ain't about to rain diamonds, Huey. But maybe she cashed in her life savings. Planned to take off, start a new life.
TOMAS: You got enough scratch in there to grease us up with? Open it.
CHUCKIE: Open it.
VINH: Open the box else we put you in OPEN IT!
CHUCKIE: OPEN IT!
OPEN IT!: Della all but screams.
DELLA: I'll open it.
TOMAS: She ain't got nuthin'. Let's just take that pussy and git going.
VINH: What the fuck, niggaz?
CHUCKIE: Shut up.
VINH: You hurt?
CHUCKIE: SHUT THE FUCK UP.
GET UP!: Tomas staggers up to standing.
TOMAS: Jesus hijo de maria el virgene.
VINH: Vinh moves towards Chuckie who is crouched over Huey.
CHUCKIE: My little brother.
TOMAS: Mamacita! Madre de Dios!
CHUCKIE: You tread on my boy's face. YOU
TOMAS: I didn't kill him. I didn't kill no
CHUCKIE: Chuckie's voice drifts towards her. She ducks down among the Her eyes scan the darkness. No moving shapes nor forms. No sound. No flashlight. Just shadowy clumps of trees. Should she stay put or should she run? Then she sees it. The flashlight weaving through the pines She pushes further in among the roots, tries to make herself The flashlight beam sweeps across the forest floor towards her. One set of footsteps crunches through the foilage. She holds still, terrified. The flashlight pauses on the dead tree, the roots.
DELLA!: Chuckie's voice drifts towards her. She ducks down among the Her eyes scan the darkness. No moving shapes nor forms. No sound. No flashlight. Just shadowy clumps of trees. Should she stay put or should she run? Then she sees it. The flashlight weaving through the pines She pushes further in among the roots, tries to make herself The flashlight beam sweeps across the forest floor towards her. One set of footsteps crunches through the foilage. She holds still, terrified. The flashlight pauses on the dead tree, the roots.
DELLA: ( muttering to herself ) Shit! Oh Shit!
CHUCKIE: What the fuck you doing?
VINH: It's a tribute. A gesture.
CHUCKIE: A what?
VINH: It's for Huey. Our dead homie.
CHUCKIE: You checked out, right?
VINH: He loved that track.
CHUCKIE: Get a grip, skippy.
TOMAS: I didn't mean it. I didn't do it. I didn't mean to kill him.
CHUCKIE: Well he dead. That's it for him. OVER. But we still here. Hell, yeah. Payback's gonna be a real bitch for a real bitch.
VINH: She probably gone by now.
CHUCKIE: You best hope not, genius. She gone, we gone.
DELLA!: 102 102
TOMAS: I can smell her Bulgari.
CHUCKIE: She was right here. Must a saw your dumb ass tribute and everything.
TOMAS: It Bulgari, dude. My Dad's bitch bathes in it.
CHUCKIE: There more of her footprints.
SHIT!: TOMAS ( O.S. )
CHUCKIE: Kon'aro Kusotare.
VINH: Kon'aro Kusotare.
CHUCKIE: You know we don't speak the Chinky.
VINH: What's your game, Chuckie? We left stumbling around in the dark while you hog the flashlight.
CHUCKIE: I stole it. I get to use it. That's how it works. That right Tomas?
TOMAS: Right on, dog.
VINH: What if I steal it from you?
CHUCKIE: There you go, bro.
TOMAS: We gonna put yo ass on ice, bitch!
CHUCKIE: THERE SHE IS, TOP OF THE GULCH!
TOMAS: Tomas falls back from the gulch-side, loosening several rocks. The rocks tumble downhill, hit Vinh.
AHHHHHEEEEEEHHHHH!: Tomas falls back from the gulch-side, loosening several rocks. The rocks tumble downhill, hit Vinh.
VINH: Chuckie scales the gulch behind them. Vinh rubs his head. Sees something between the trees. Thinks it's Huey.
AHHHHHHH!: Chuckie scales the gulch behind them. Vinh rubs his head. Sees something between the trees. Thinks it's Huey.
CHUCKIE: Chuckie looks around, hoping against hope that Vinh may be right, that Huey may just be alive. Vinh becomes perplexed.
VINH: I saw him.
CHUCKIE: Sure you did, bro.
TOMAS: CONEJO! AIN'T NUTHIN' CAN SAVE YO ASS NOW.
DELLA: As she staggers backwards in the opposite direction. Tomas tries to cry out but can only utter in pain.
TOMAS: Unnh! Unnh! Unnh!
TOMAS!: The sound of footfalls crashing through the brush follows.
CHUCKIE: Tomas is one hard son of a bitch. He got her strung up from a tree by now and you know it.
VINH: There's something over here. It looks like a body.
CHUCKIE: It's a big old tree trunk, you paranoid gook.
VINH: Scene 105Page 71
CHUCKIE: It was a stupid ass accident killed Huey. You know that. And Tomas..
DELLA: I'm sorry.
VINH: This buys her a moment or two to get ahead. The stream bends right ahead. She opts to stay in it. Chuckie leaps out, runs along the banks, hoping to outrun and trap her. But the stream then bends left, giving her an advantage. He leaps back across the stream to the other side. But she's outrunning him. He charges back into the stream behind her. Della keeps on running through the stream, somehow trusting its direction. Vinh catches up with Chuckie. The boys are maybe twenty-five feet behind her. A SHOT rings out. Then a bullet races past her ear. Lodges in a tree just ahead of her. She almost loses her footing. She'd forgotten for just a moment, that they had a gun. Another shot blasts off into the night, skims her shoulder, hits the muddy bank of the stream. She flinches, braces herself, keeps going, adrenalin pumping harder than ever.
VINH: I don't feel good, Chuckie. You think I got the hypothermia?
CHUCKIE: Nah, yo got the yellow fever.
VINH: I'm telling you, it ain't natural how she gets away every time. She got to be hiding up on the slope? You head up first and I'll follow with the flashlight.
CHUCKIE: She got to be hiding up on the slope? You head up first and I'll follow with the flashlight.
SHIT!: The boys freeze, then resume talking in whispers.
VINH: I ain't going up there without the gun. End of story.
CHUCKIE: Never would've pegged you as a pussy, Vinh. Even when Huey and Tomas called it, I always defended your ass.
VINH: Ain't no one never said I was a She a skinny ass bitch, too. Can't be weighing in at more than one
CHUCKIE: She a skinny ass bitch, too. Can't be weighing in at more than one
VINH: Tomas an Huey never called me a I ain't speaking ill o' the dead.
CHUCKIE: I ain't speaking ill o' the dead.
VINH: You already did.
CHUCKIE: Anyways, when you ever shot a gun? Probably miss and shoot yourself in the foot.
CHUCKIE: That's the spirit gangsta. Holler if you see her and I'll shoot.
VINH: Della watches Vinh plough through the brush. The flashlight sweeps and darts with his movements, up ahead of him, up the embankment. Vinh pushes through several trees, slips, regains his footing. He plods past the tree. She slips the screwdriver up her sleeve. Prays he won't stop. She pulls herself further up the tree. A sudden commotion of swaying branches startles her, followed by a shower of pine needles. Her heart stops. A moment later the sound of fluttering wings is followed by the squawking of angry birds. She's disturbed a bird's nest.
CHUUUCCKKKKIEEE!: She silences his yell with a choke hold. Wraps her legs around his torso. He bites her arm but she holds tight.
VINH?: Vinh topples to the mud, dragging Della with him. They roll as he desperately tries to disengage her. The flashlight frantically searches the area for them. Della frees the screwdriver she'd stuffed up her sleeve. She DRIVES the screw driver up into the base of Vinh's skull.
CHUCKIE: There's only you and me, now.
CHUCKIE?: I can smell your blood, your sweat. I know you're close.
CHUCKIE: After what went down tonight, we got a special bond.
DELLA: I'M GOING TO KILL YOU.
CHUCKIE: I figured that would help you find your voice!
DELLA: Give me a break. Monday night mechanics. Tuesday Pilates. Wednesday Spanish. Thursday, I wish..
CHUCKIE: Monday night mechanics. Tuesday Pilates. Wednesday Spanish. Thursday, I wish..
DELLA: I want.
CHUCKIE: Leave the tools.
DELLA: I already did.
CHUCKIE: Hell of a night, huh?
DELLA: I was only going to the mall for some Christmas wrapping paper.
CHUCKIE: Shit happens. What now? I wanted to look you in the eye before I kill you.
DELLA: What now? I wanted to look you in the eye before I kill you.
CHUCKIE: I wanted to look you in the eye before I kill you.
DELLA: That's what I figured.
CHUCKIE: Huey? Huey's .. You're even better than I thought.
CHRIST!: She tumbles him down to the December ground and wraps her legs tight around him. Tight like a lover. She grinds her chin deep and forcefully into the area of his broken collarbone, exacerbating the wound. He cries out, thrashes about. She keeps her body melded to his, grinding her chin even deeper. He wraps his arms tightly around her and pulls her even closer, wrenches her chin up and away from his collarbone. They roll across the dirt. He whispers, low and close to He pushes his mouth hard up against hers to stop her chin returning to the wound. She tries to pull away but he only presses harder. Neither can break away. It's unclear who's got the gun. They roll until she suddenly pulls away, sits up. But he has her and she has him in a fatal leg lock.
DELLA: Oh my.
KENNETH: Where the hell have you been?
DELLA: Please don't call me that. Don't ever call me that again.
KENNETH: She steps slowly towards him. Sees a violent adventure flick wrapping up behind him on TV. The end credits scroll down the Kenneth cannot understand her garbled words. He sees the dried blood on her chin, matted mud on her coat.
DELLA: I just wanted to get home to my
KENNETH: What happened to you?
DELLA: Are they okay?
KENNETH: Sound asleep, huh?
DELLA: THE END
THE END: Writers : Susan Montford Edward Bryant
