MORTON: ( mumbling ) Madman. Hideous spider. Run. Run! Warn the President.
MORTON: ( CONTINUED )
BLACK: DISSOLVE TO:
WEST: That's right, sugar, and you should feel free to treat him just bad.
WEST: ( to himself ) General McGrath's boys. I thought y'all was never gonna show up.
SALOON GIRL: Mister West, you wouldn't be here workin' tonight, now would you?
WEST: No, no. 'Course not. Not tonight. Would you be working if you were up here with you?
SALOON GIRL: They start kissing again. He surreptitiously peeks out the knothole, while continuing his kiss.
DORA: I'm sorry. That won't be possible. I have. tonsillitis.
BIG REB: Pack'er up good, Virgil. Next stop Ah, this hole is a safety issue. I'm thinking, what if it starts to rain and the water level goes up. It could suck you right up. I'm protecting you. ( variations ) Problem solved.
SALOON GIRL: ( admonishing ) Ah, this hole is a safety issue. I'm thinking, what if it starts to rain and the water level goes up. It could suck you right up. I'm protecting you. ( variations ) Problem solved.
WEST: Ah, this hole is a safety issue. I'm thinking, what if it starts to rain and the water level goes up. It could suck you right up. I'm protecting you. ( variations ) Problem solved.
SALOON GIRL: Problem solved.
WEST: Belle, you don't just ram a man's underbritches into a knothole. You wanna plug the hole, you ram your own britches in there.
SALOON GIRL: Oh, Jim.
WEST: ( serious ) Much as I'd like to take credit for that you might need to hand me my gun.
WEST: . Hand me my gun.
WEST: Okay, who just made a wish? Was it you?
WEST: I could sure use those clothes
BIG REB: Well, we got us a shy nig.
WEST: Fought five long years with the Union Army not to hear that word again. And you boys lost,
WEST: How 'bout some pants!?
HUDSON: My employer, here in a brothel? That would be quite. redundant.
HUDSON: You'll meet him when the time and place are appropriate. . shall we go upstairs to check the 'merchandise'?
DORA: Still not interested.
DORA: ( baritone ) That doesn't mean a girl can't have high standards.
WEST: Could I have a little privacy
WEST: Thank you.
WEST: You'll have to excuse me, darlin'. but my evidence is getting away.
WEST: Sorry about there not being any What's your name, missy?
WEST: Backwards-ass bumpkins got a wagon full of nitro.!
WEST: Whoa now.! I said, whoa!!!
WEST: I said, whoa!!!
WEST: Well, well, this is workin' out to be a perfect day. My man.
GORDON: ( normal voice ) Good. You're going to be my little doggy. And when I say 'speak,' you tell me everything I want to know. Understood? All right, little doggy. Sit up. ( as he does ) Now tell me who's in the sack next door. Is it the scientist, Dr. Escobar? Speak! Woof! Woof!
GORDON: All right, little doggy. Sit up. Now tell me who's in the sack next door. Is it the scientist, Dr. Escobar? Speak! Woof! Woof!
GORDON: Speak words, dumb doggy! Tell me the name of the man you kidnapped him for.
GORDON: Watch the swirling spiral! Lie down, bad dog!
WEST: Didn't mean to startle you, ma'am. Looked like you could use some
GORDON: ( clears throat to Looks can be deceivin'. dark stranger. I am perfectly fine.
WEST: I can see that, darlin'. Woman of your caliber probably gets top dollar, too. So here you go. You can run along. I'll take care of McGrath.
WEST: C'mon, lady. You got the money. Have a little dignity.
HUDSON: Get Escobar out of here!
GORDON: Let's go, Hudson. hands!
GORDON: Thank. you.
WEST: U.S. Army. Now get outta my way, lady!
GORDON: ( the baritone I'm no lady! I'm a U.S. Marshal! You get out of my way!
LIPPENREIDER: ( in a monotone ) Get out of my way. get out of my way. U.S. Army. U.S. Marshal.
LOVELESS: Oh, dear.
HUDSON: Federal agents inside, sir!
LOVELESS: So Miss Lippenreider informs me. Still, I believe good manners dictate we should send out.
LOVELESS: . the welcome wagon.
WEST: So now what.?
HOUSE DETECTIVE: Whoa there, 'pardner.' Winning the war may have got you forty acres and a mule, but you can't just traipse into the President's office. Now gimme that gun.
WEST: This gun?
WEST: Or this one?
PRESIDENT GRANT: Don't make Captain West any later for his appointment than he already is!
PRESIDENT GRANT: Been a lot of death threats lately . Cabinet made me hire some damn Drink, cigar?
WEST: Thank you, sir.
PRESIDENT GRANT: I hear you let General McGrath get away?
WEST: Sir, I had him right in my hands when some half-a-sissy wearin' a dress ruined.
PRESIDENT GRANT: ( cuts him off ) Artemus Gordon.
WEST: You. know him?
PRESIDENT GRANT: Of course I know him, he's the best marshal I've got! He's a Gordon has proven himself time and again as a very cunning operator with a rapacious intellect. Nothing will stop him from completing a mission for his President. except the impulsive actions of a headstrong cowboy! Who are you?
WEST: Who are you?
PRESIDENT GRANT: I am the President of the United
WEST: Wrong answer. Who are you?
PRESIDENT GRANT: I am the President of. . I'm Artemus Gordon.
WEST: The President went to West Point . not Harvard.
GORDON: Sir, in perilous times like these, I was simply illustrating how someone impersonating you could actually walk right into the very bowels of the White House.
PRESIDENT GRANT: You're clever, Gordon. One day it'll get you killed.
PRESIDENT GRANT: . And you, West not every situation calls for your patented approach of shoot first, shoot later, shoot again then when they're all dead, try to ask a question or two. Working together will be good for both of you.
PRESIDENT GRANT: You work the way your Commander In Chief tells you to work.
PRESIDENT GRANT: Ten of our country's best scientists. all kidnapped in the last year. By General McGrath, it now seems. The fact is, gentlemen, you've both been working on the same case all along. Why did it take you so long to realize it?
WEST: Well, sir, one of us was still trying to figure out if he was a man or a woman. I don't have time for this bickering! One week, if we're to believe this.
PRESIDENT GRANT: I don't have time for this bickering! One week, if we're to believe this.
PRESIDENT GRANT: ( reading ) 'General Grant, the scientists that you seek are in my employ
PRESIDENT GRANT: This letter was delivered inside
GORDON: ( reaching inside ) Marzipan, isn't it?
PRESIDENT GRANT: ( grabs his hand )
WEST: It's McGrath, sir. The South is rising again. I'm gonna stop it.
GORDON: Sir, West's obsession aside, McGrath may be a vicious killer, but a mastermind he is not. So whom do we seek? After consulting with Intelligence.
WEST: ( cuts him off ) McGrath's headed for New Orleans. The longer we stand here talkin', the farther away he gets. I don't need 'Intelligence' to tell me Ah, so that would mean you rely on . Stupidity?
GORDON: Ah, so that would mean you rely on . Stupidity?
PRESIDENT GRANT: Gentlemen! I'm leaving today for Utah where the transcontinental railroads will be joined at Promontory Point.
PRESIDENT GRANT: For the first time the United States will truly be united. Someone wants us divided. Now look, you two are the best I've got. Put aside your differences and stop this madman. whoever he is. If you fail, well. we may never know how great this country could've been. You have a week. Dismissed!
AIDE: The President has put a private train at your disposal. Engine number five, track six. Mr. Gordon, the item you
WEST: I call it the Bi-axle Nitro- Save it. I've gotta train to
GORDON: I call it the Bi-axle Nitro- Save it. I've gotta train to
WEST: Save it. I've gotta train to
WEST: ( snaps off a smug
GORDON: VROOOM! An ENGINE KICKS IN and Gordon rockets forward. ( Yep, Artemus has invented the first motorcycle! ) Fiery exhaust blasts out of the manifolds as the bike propels him down the street at about 60 mph right past.
WEST: Stop this train!! You hear me!?!
GORDON: ( calmly ) Thanks for dropping in.
WEST: Forget the bikes, the beards, the fake boobies. Put down the needlepoint and let's settle this like men!
GORDON: As a matter of clarification, this isn't needlepoint. This is.
GORDON: Right now, I'm putting the final touches on a new invention of my creation. I call it. The Impermeable. It's a vest that, when worn under the clothing, can stop any modern bullet fired even at close range.
WEST: Gordon quickly pulls the vest away from his stomach.
GORDON: But it hasn't been really tested empirically yet.
WEST: Get up!
GORDON: ( yawn, yawn ) Guns. I find them so primitive and unnecessary. if one has done one's proper planning.
WEST: Yeah? How do you feel about a I must tell you, Mr. West, I've always felt that allowing a situation to degenerate into physical violence is a failure on my part.
GORDON: I must tell you, Mr. West, I've always felt that allowing a situation to degenerate into physical violence is a failure on my part.
WEST: Well then, 'Mr.' Gordon, you
GORDON: I'm sorry, Mr. West, you brought this on yourself.
GORDON: I love this train!
GORDON: The President asked for my suggestions on how to make the Wanderer both comfortable and
GORDON: And while you're down there, you may want to avail yourself of my Sub-carriage Inter-rail
WEST: Only one doin' any 'egressin' is gonna be you.
GORDON: ( wide-eyed ) Perhaps the President was right about us putting aside our petty ( recites above the
CLATTER ): 'The opposite is beneficial, from things that differ comes the fairest attunement.' Aristotle.
COLEMAN: Knock each other about all ya please, but harm my train and I'll douse ya like dogs.
GORDON: That's my veal reduction sauce!
COLEMAN: Well then, let's get on about our business, shall we, gentlemen? Now, where to?
WEST: New Orleans.
GORDON: Shall we let Professor Morton
WEST: 47 INT. WANDERER LAB CAR - DUSK 47
GORDON: Meet Professor Thaddeus Morton, expert in the field of metallurgy . discovered in a field of alfalfa. Kidnapped from M.I.T. six months ago.
WEST: That's a man's head!
GORDON: . And this magnetic collar was around it when his body was discovered. Haven't figured that one out yet.
WEST: That's a man's head.
GORDON: According to the Retinal Terminus Theory. a dying person's last conscious image is burned into the back of the eyeball like a photograph. Perhaps there's a clue there.
GORDON: Morton's last image!
WEST: That's a man's head! Ah. The refraction of the lenses causes the image to appear upside down. We simply.
GORDON: Ah. The refraction of the lenses causes the image to appear upside down. We simply.
WEST: It's McGrath. I was right all
GORDON: He seems to have something in his pocket. too fuzzy to read, Mortification of the aqueous humor seems to have led to the loss
GORDON: Mortification of the aqueous humor seems to have led to the loss
WEST: . glasses.
WEST: 'Friends of the South! Come to a Surprise Costume Ball. April 14, eight-thirty. 346 Garden Street. ' Like I said.. New Orleans.
GORDON: How about this? You could come as my man servant.
WEST: ( slave voice ) Oh yes, Massa Gordon, dats what I'll do. And I'll jus' smile and do as I's tole so those people won' ever know that I would rather shoot myself in the head than play your god damned man servant!
GORDON: I have a horse costume. You could be the head.
WEST: The only thing I need to wear is
GORDON: Okay, if you insist on carrying a firearm, I have something I think you'll find intriguing.
GORDON: And it would go nicely with this.
WEST: Jim West does not wear a dress.
GORDON: Then what's your plan?
WEST: How 'bout this: I'll go as a government agent who's gonna kill McGrath.
GORDON: An armed, Negro cowboy costume, how creative. In a room full of white Southerners, you oughtta fit right in. You might even win first prize!
GORDON: Listen to me. The art of disguise is what's going to get us into that party, thus allowing us to find these kidnapped scientists before they're forced to create something that will destroy this great country.
WEST: Let me tell you a little something about beloved 'art of disguise'. That night at Fat-Can's, I knew you weren't a woman.
GORDON: But I was propositioned by three Gordon, you looked nasty. Your breasts were all hard and stiff, and were sticking straight out like two rusty cannons on a sunken ship.
WEST: Gordon, you looked nasty. Your breasts were all hard and stiff, and were sticking straight out like two rusty cannons on a sunken ship.
GORDON: These are a work of art. Scientifically and aesthetically They look like shit.
WEST: They look like shit.
GORDON: Touch them.
WEST: I don't wanna touch 'em. I can see I don't like 'em.
GORDON: What, are you afraid you're wrong? Touch my breasts.
COLEMAN: ( to himself ) I knew it. Well, I'll have no part of it!
WEST: There, Gordon, you happy? I'm touching your breasts.
GORDON: Not so rough. The buckwheat'll come out.
WEST: Buckwheat? That's your problem.
GORDON: What are you doing?
WEST: Now, squeeze this. This is what a breast should feel like.
GORDON: ( CONTINUED )
WEST: Isn't that nice?
GORDON: Very nice.
WEST: Now touch yourself.
GORDON: You win. I'm hard.
COLEMAN: ( disgusted ) Federal officers, bah!
GORDON: I was just going to jot down a You know something, that's a good place to put a gun.
WEST: You know something, that's a good place to put a gun.
GORDON: But then, where would I keep my You know, Artemus, I think you underestimate the convenience of a
WEST: You know, Artemus, I think you underestimate the convenience of a
GUARD: You got about as much chance of havin' an invitation as him.
WEST: Matter of fact, got it right here.
RITA: Put me in the dungeon with all those smelly, dirty bearded men . but I am not goin' in there.
AMAZONIA: You applied for the position.
RITA: Yeah, a standing up position. I'm an entertainer, not a.
MISS LIPPENREIDER: Do not be selfish and stupid. He always spoils his new girl.
RITA: Yeah. Well gimme a simple diamond bracelet instead of that.
MUNITIA: It is not so bad. once the metal warms up.
DRAGON LADY: What a terribly clever costume, . West. Jim West.
WEST: . West. Jim West.
DRAGON LADY: Well. West meets East. Mae Lee Are you here alone, Mr. West?
WEST: Actually I'm, uh trying to surprise an old friend General McGrath. Seen him around I don't believe that name was on our guest list. And I would know. I'm Dr. Loveless's personal
WEST: Dr. Arliss Loveless.? One of the great founders of the Confederacy with Jefferson Davis. Funny how most people think he's Tonight's his coming-out party.
MISS EAST: Tonight's his coming-out party.
MISS EAST: See anybody that looks familiar?
WEST: Matter of fact, I do.
MISS EAST: I'm. jealous. Meet me later. in the foyer.
DISTAFF CORPS: ( singing ) 'Mine eyes have seen the glory Of the coming of the Lord.'
DISTAFF CORPS: ( singing ) 'He has trampled down the vintage Where the grapes of wrath are
LOVELESS: ( impishly ) Don't you just hate that song?
LOVELESS: Why, y'all look like you've seen a ghost! It's me, dear friends, alive and kicking! Well, alive,
LOVELESS: ( chuckles ) We may've lost the war, but heaven knows. we haven't lost our sense of humor!
LOVELESS: Not even when we've lost a lung. a spleen. a bladder. two legs. thirty-five feet of small intestine and our ability to All in the name of the South. . do we lose our sense of humor. I owe a deep debt of gratitude to my friends across the sea for their comfort and. succor.
LOVELESS: I owe a deep debt of gratitude to my friends across the sea for their comfort and. succor.
LOVELESS: So.! Mi casa es su casa! Ma maison est a vous! Let the party
LOVELESS: Mr. West, how nice of you to join us tonight. and add color to these monochromatic proceedings. Well, when a man comes back from the dead, it's an occasion to stand and be counted.
WEST: Well, when a man comes back from the dead, it's an occasion to stand and be counted.
LOVELESS: Miss East informs me that you were expecting to meet General McGrath here. I knew him years ago. but haven't seen him in a coon's age.
WEST: I bet a man like yourself would find it difficult to keep in touch with even half the people you Perhaps the lovely Miss East will keep you from being a slave to your disappointment.
LOVELESS: Perhaps the lovely Miss East will keep you from being a slave to your disappointment.
WEST: Well, you know beautiful women. they encourage you one second, cut the legs out from under you the
WEST: Hey, honey. I see a big ole spider up on the wall. Hope it doesn't drop down your pretty
GORDON: Peeking through the keyhole.? So 18th Century.
LOVELESS: Your men will have their weapons tonight. And my promise that they will be part of the greatest military victory of this century! Oh, you're a pip, sir! I'd follow you into the maw of Cerberus And so you shall. Have your men here at. 10 o'clock tonight.
LOVELESS: And so you shall. Have your men here at. 10 o'clock tonight.
MISS EAST: I said to meet me in the foyer.
WEST: Oh, the foy-aay. Sorry, I've never been much good at French.
MISS EAST: Au contraire.
MISS EAST: So let's see, Mr. West. are you a dangerous spy of some sort? Or just a handsome cowboy who likes to. poke around.
WEST: Um. that second one.
NIGHT: is being the perfect party guest, moving through the crowd chit-chatting with this person and that ( in French, Spanish, German ) when he sees something of Munitia and Lippenreider come out of an upstairs bedroom, lock it behind them. Hmmm. What's in there? As he starts upstairs, Amazonia appears, blocking his way.
GORDON: Howdy there. big sturdy gal. Yer dance card full?
WEST: Thanks for helpin' me get to the bottom of this case.
WEST: Real impressed the way you got the dance floor staked out. Maybe one of your missin' scientists'll cut Thought you should know that while you were trying to decide what shoes to wear tonight. I found that our host, Dr.
WEST: . is meeting McGrath and his troops at Malheureux Point in an So you enjoy the party. I'm gonna go save the Republic.
WEST: But I will say, good work on your bladders tonight. they're damn
GEORGE WASHINGTON: Looks like we're gonna have to teach y'all a little lesson on how to behave in polite society.
WEST: Don't grab a white lady's boobies at the big redneck dance. Is that the lesson? Well, I learned it. Don't scratch your head with the shrimp fork. I got that one too. So whaddaya say we call this off?
NIGHT: eases in, stops at what he sees. And it sure ain't scientists. Beside the bed, locked in an iron disco-like cage, is Rita, still wearing her scanty outfit. Gordon squints at her, gives a charming smile.
GORDON: I feel as if we know each other from someplace.?
RITA: Try again, buster.!
GORDON: Ma'am, please! While I realize I look like something straight out of James Fenimore Cooper. I mean you no harm. My name is Artemus Gordon. And you look like you're in trouble.
RITA: ( dryly )
RITA: I'm Rita. I was hired here as an entertainer. Not that I'm complaining, but what are you doin' in here?
GORDON: ( looking up miles Looking for some missing scientists. not that I'm
GORDON: I'm a special U.S. Marshal on assignment from the President.
RITA: ( almost impressed ) If you're so special, how come you're lookin' up here when Loveless has 'em all workin' down in the dungeon? ( rattles bars Get me out of here and I'll take you down there.
GORDON: Too late. The 'dungeon' is cleaned out. It was the first place I checked, right after I sampled the gumbo. Bit heavy on the okra.
RITA: ( suddenly a coquettish Thank you. Artemus, was it?
GORDON: One doesn't forget a smile like that. Now where in the world was it.? Have you ever played the Empire Room. the Bijou Cafe
WEST: Can I have everyone's attention please. I think we've had a series of major misunderstandings and I'd like to take a moment to clear them up. First, the whole drumming on the boobies thing. In my native land, Africa, my ancestors used drums to communicate between villages. I'm sure y'all can see that this young girl here can communicate all the way down to Baton Rouge. Hell, on a clear day, we might even get Galveston. All I was saying was, 'How're you doing,' 'My name's Jim,' 'How's your mama?'
WEST: I'll take that as a no. Darling, would it help at all if I said I thought you were a man?
WEST: Guess not.
GEORGE WASHINGTON: Hang him!
NIGHT: West leans into Gordon's ear.
WEST: Hang 'm.!
WEST: ( still pissed, ( to Rita ) Meet my trigger-happy partner, James West. who doesn't seem to realize that my carefully planned diversion gave me the opportunity to search for the missing Scientist, huh.
GORDON: ( to Rita ) Meet my trigger-happy partner, James West. who doesn't seem to realize that my carefully planned diversion gave me the opportunity to search for the missing Scientist, huh.
WEST: Scientist, huh.
GORDON: This is Rita. I found her locked in a cage in Loveless's bedroom. She's an entertainer.
RITA: Um, maybe I haven't been quite honest about that. My name is Rita Escobar. I came to find Guillermo Escobar, the scientist, my. father.
GORDON: Professor Escobar?! He was the one I almost rescued that night That's where I know you from! Fat-Can Candy's. you sang before I did.
RITA: Excuse me?
GORDON: That was me. Burgundy dress with the bustle.
WEST: Look, Rita, I'm sorry you had the wrong agent working on your case. When I find your father I promise I'll send him back safely.
RITA: He's impulsive, James.
LOVELESS: Well, General, it's been a long journey from New Liberty. Sir, there isn't a day that passes that I don't contemplate it.
LOVELESS: Yes, and so do I. So do I. If I'd only had the scientific understanding of gunpowder and primers that I have today.
LOVELESS: Oh, you mean the stomach-churning carnage that earned you your unfortunate nom de guerre.
LOVELESS: What was that nickname again? 'Bloodbath' McGrath. the Butcher of New Liberty.'
REB #1: They oughta be here by now.
REB #2: Maybe we're in the wrong place.
REB #1: ( rechecks map ) No, we're supposed to wait 'xactly on this here spot.
LOVELESS: My dear General, after donating half my physical being creating a weapon capable of doing this. how did you and General Lee repay my loyalty? You surrendered at Appomattox! So, who betrayed whom?
LOVELESS: Munitia, make note. Turret speed needs to be accelerated!
MUNITIA: ( to Amazonia ) Change gear ratio from 2.2 to 2.8!
AMAZONIA: A bucket for the minister, please!
LIPPENREIDER: Scream. Scream. My head. I'm dying. Scream. Moan. Scream. Loveless, I demand you give the order to stop this slaughter now!
LOVELESS: ( ignores him ) . We're going to need more loading drills! I'm hearing too much time between screams. For the last time, give them the order to desist!
LOVELESS: General, I understand your distress. But believe me, those men are not dying senselessly. It is for a far greater cause than you can imagine.
WIDER: Go straight to hell, sir!
LOVELESS: After you. sir.
LOVELESS: Bloodbath McGrath indeed.
LOVELESS: Well, that concludes the festivities. Ladies, feed him to the crabs. But, my friends, that tank is just a little ol' toy compared to what this country's greatest scientists are cooking up for me next. So if I've piqued your interest, bring 1000 kilograms of your country's gold to Spider Canyon four days from now. Now if you'll excuse me, I've got a tank to catch.
LOVELESS: But, my friends, that tank is just a little ol' toy compared to what this country's greatest scientists are cooking up for me next. So if I've piqued your interest, bring 1000 kilograms of your country's gold to Spider Canyon four days from now. Now if you'll excuse me, I've got a tank to catch.
LOVELESS: My destination is both the future. and the past! Forget Paul Revere, this will be the most revolutionary ride in the history of America!!
LOVELESS: If you don't want to miss the ride, have the last payment of 1000 kilograms of your country's gold in my hands no later than Friday. That's when I make our little proposal to President Grant. One I'm ever so confident he's gonna accept. Au revoir, adios, and ta-ta!
GORDON: It came up out of the lake. from the way these corpses are positioned, laid down a 360-degree pattern of cannon fire. then disappeared in moments. My God, what kind of weapon is it?
RITA: Excuse me, I think I'm going to be
WEST: It just rolls on and on. Makes a screeching sound like a wounded animal. Got a 'cabin' on top with a cannon. swivels 'round like an eagle's head.
GORDON: You saw it?
WEST: Heard about it. Thought it was crazy survivors' stories.
GORDON: What survivors? There aren't any New Liberty, Illinois the free slave town just over the border. Just one week before the War ended in '65. I was in the 9th Cavalry that discovered it. Old men, women, children. they used them for target practice.
WEST: New Liberty, Illinois the free slave town just over the border. Just one week before the War ended in '65. I was in the 9th Cavalry that discovered it. Old men, women, children. they used them for target practice.
WEST: That's when I vowed to follow McGrath to the end of the earth. What's the matter, West? Thought you'd be happy to find me. like I was hoping to kill you myself.
WEST: I was hoping to kill you myself.
RITA: That's a nice way to talk to You'll have to live with it. As I've lived with the blame for New
WEST: What do you mean? It was Loveless. his plan. He operated the killing machine there. Smarter now. left it to others here.
WEST: Where is he? Where did he go?!
RITA: I'll tell you if you take me Just tell me.
WEST: ( in no mood ) Just tell me.
RITA: The girls at the mansion. They 'I vonder if my hair vill get frissy in ze desert.? Vhere is diss Ooo-tah anyvay?'
WEST: Coleman. let's go! Full speed
COLEMAN: Aye, sir!
GORDON: ( wistful ) I don't see why we couldn't have given her a ride back home to Texas. It is on the way.
WEST: On the way to Utah where our President happens to be. Maybe we oughta be worryin' about that little coincidence!
GORDON: We wouldn't have known where Loveless was going if it wasn't for her. Seems a bit ungracious. Possibly perilous.
WEST: Look, all that would happen would be she'd get in our way and I'd probably wind up gettin' in the saddle with her.
GORDON: Funny that you say that. Because I thought she was more interested in me.
WEST: Good luck on that one.
GORDON: ( weakly ) Ha, ha, ha. You know, I can't imagine what Loveless a man without any reproductive organs could possibly want with Rita.
GORDON: . especially her breasts. Did you notice the way one of them. Both of them actually. to say nothing of her buttocks.
GORDON: . and the group of foreign ministers at Loveless's party. What were they doing there?
GORDON: ( using pool balls ) Here's France, Spain and ( sotto voce ) How long has she been here?
WEST: Since the first breast.
GORDON: I am so embarrassed.
WEST: I'll spare you. Make yourself a sandwich to take with you. You're getting off.
RITA: But. I can help you.
WEST: How could you possibly help us?
RITA: Well, I heard you talking about why all those foreign guys were at Loveless's party.? You want me to tell you?
GORDON: By all means.
RITA: ( to Gordon, chewing ) This is fantastic. You can cut it with a fork! How'd you cook it?
GORDON: ( someone appreciates Well, in a daubiere. a clay pot. A French method which.
WEST: What about the foreign guys?!
RITA: They were mad about something, you know? Something about a real bad deal in Louisiana on The Louisiana Purchase?
GORDON: The Louisiana Purchase?
RITA: And Queen somebody-somebody of France got swindled.
GORDON: Queen Isabella of Spain.
WEST: Gordon, this is crazy. She doesn't know what she's talking
WEST: ( into speaker horn ) Coleman, stop the train! Miss Escobar's getting off.
RITA: ( grabs horn ) I'm a frightened, starving, half- naked young woman who only wants to find her father!
WEST: ( grabs it back ) Coleman. stop the train.
RITA: Please, Jim. My father's the only family I've got. What am I supposed to do? Sit home and wait for news he's been killed? Or go do something! What would you do,
WEST: Look, I got nothing against you, Rita. It's just that. What's going to happen when we catch up to Loveless. with you on the
RITA: I know you'd never let him take me back. I've seen you shoot.
GORDON: I assure you, Rita, an attack by Loveless would be an exercise in . Allow me to demonstrate how my design suggestions have made the Wanderer impervious to attack.
WEST: I'm the impervious part.
GORDON: Hardly. Completely armor-
GORDON: An attacker would find the lighting inside extremely.
GORDON: And if, by some inconceivable fluke, they did manage to gain An innocent billiard ball this But depress the number. a sleeping gas bomb. Effective in under three seconds.
GORDON: So rest assured, Rita. you are completely safe within these
WEST: I don't know about you, ma'am, but I know I'll be sleeping a whole lot better tonight. . assuming Loveless barges in here and feels like a game of Speaking of sleeping, I'm pretty tired. Artemus, do you think I could borrow something to wear?
RITA: Speaking of sleeping, I'm pretty tired. Artemus, do you think I could borrow something to wear?
WEST: I've got somethin' you might use. It ain't stylish, but it's
WEST: Loveless kidnapped two chemists, that means there's gonna be explosives. He's got a metallurgist, so there's gonna be heavy armor. And he's got Rita's father, who according to you is the world's foremost specialist in hydraulics. Which means, whatever it is. it's gonna move.
WEST: So what, is he building that's gonna make the President fall to his knees and surrender the country?
GORDON: A bedside heater.
WEST: Rita. She needs a bedside heater. I mean, it gets cold in there, you know, with the stained glass window right over the
GORDON: Rita. She needs a bedside heater. I mean, it gets cold in there, you know, with the stained glass window right over the
GORDON: Such a pleasant girl. A real breath of fresh ass.
WEST: You said ass.
GORDON: Did I? No.
RITA: What's going on?
GORDON: Stay back here, take cover!
WEST: What the hell is this?
GORDON: I took the liberty of installing it while you were sleeping.
WEST: Leave my stuff alone!
COLEMAN: Am I missin' somethin' here.?
LOVELESS: Amazonia, shall we disabuse our friends of the notion that one's problems are solved when we see the light at the end of the
GORDON: Jim, we're the ones chasing Loveless, correct? Then perhaps you could explain what they're doing behind us.
WEST: They couldn't fire the cannon at us from in front. Any other
WEST: Would it put you out too much to throw me a rope and hit your little secret button?
GORDON: I taught him how it worked.
RITA: You know you could put a gun on that thing.
MUNITIA: I have them square in my sights, As do I, Munitia. as do I. Fire away!
LOVELESS: ( distracted ) As do I, Munitia. as do I. ( looks up, wry smile ) Fire away!
LOVELESS: Close the fire door!
RITA: I won't let Loveless take me again! I'd rather be dead!
GORDON: ( recalling West's That's not a good one to wish for. Please, Artemus, don't leave me
RITA: Please, Artemus, don't leave me
RITA: It's a trick, I know Loveless. Rita, no! It's just.
GORDON: Rita, no! It's just.
WEST: Too damn late, is what it is.
WEST: ( mimicking him ) An innocent billiard ball this way, but depress the number and on impact. a sleeping-gas bomb.
GORDON: Don't move!
LOVELESS: Continue, Miss Lippenreider.
MISS LIPPENREIDER: ( doing both voices West. Let go of my leg! Gordon. Listen to me. Loveless collared us with the same metal device we found on Morton. Oh, Munitia. I hope we're not going to leave evidence behind like we did last time.
LOVELESS: Oh, Munitia. I hope we're not going to leave evidence behind like we did last time.
MUNITIA: Nitro this time, sire.
LOVELESS: ( through megaphone ) Good morning, gentlemen! I trust you slept well.
GORDON: What have you done with Rita?
LOVELESS: Rita, is it? How familiar! Rita is sleeping off the after-effects in the stateroom. Quite lovely, isn't she? Who knows. I might even become 'familiar' with her myself.
WEST: And that would become one more reason why I'm going to kill you.
LOVELESS: Yes, Mr. West, I'm sure a well- endowed blackamoor like yourself must find it absolutely impossible. that a freak like me could fully enjoy the pleasure of a woman. But having witnessed my use of mechinology so far. wouldn't you think I could provide myself with something for the lower half of my body that was hard-pumping and indefatigably
LOVELESS: . And speaking of 'hard pumping.' Mr. Coleman, full steam ahead!
LOVELESS: What a marvelous train! You don't mind if I borrow it, do you, Other than a lack of wheelchair access, I find it a most comfortable way to pass the long miles from here to my laboratory in Spider Canyon. I'll be seeing President Grant soon at Promontory Point. What shall I tell him for you? I'm afraid it can't be that you're alive and well.
WEST: Gordon, get out your little tool kit and get this damn thing off of 'Gentlemen, welcome to the Loveless Experimental Camp for Political Dissidents. There are no guards. No barbed wire. As long as you stay within the designated perimeter, you will stay alive.'
GORDON: 'Gentlemen, welcome to the Loveless Experimental Camp for Political Dissidents. There are no guards. No barbed wire. As long as you stay within the designated perimeter, you will stay alive.'
MISS LIPPENREIDER: West. How do you know it's not just bullshit? Gordon. Step over the fence and find out. Rita and I will put flowers on your grave every year.
WEST: I don't have time for this.
GORDON: Wait, I have an auxiliary tool
WEST: See? Nothing happened.
GORDON: Oh, really.?
WEST: Is it too late to take it off of me now?
MUNITIA: ( opening champagne Rita, my dear, not that I'm ungrateful to Providence for bringing you back to me.
LIPPENREIDER: ( opening champagne Rita, my dear, not that I'm ungrateful to Providence for bringing you back to me.
LOVELESS: ( opening champagne Rita, my dear, not that I'm ungrateful to Providence for bringing you back to me.
LOVELESS: . I'm just a wee bit curious as to how you managed to wind up with Well, they uh. seemed so. sure that they could find you. and I thought if I stayed with them. they'd lead me back to. all my
RITA: ( scrambling ) Well, they uh. seemed so. sure that they could find you. and I thought if I stayed with them. they'd lead me back to. all my
RITA: And not to give you a big head I kinda missed you.
LOVELESS: ( not buying it ) Isn't that a coincidence? I miss me, too.
GORDON: Head for that gully!
WEST: When I give the signal. Jump off the cliff into my arms.
GORDON: Are you crazy?! Do you see what's down there?
WEST: ( watching the discs Five, four, three, two.
GORDON: Forget it. I'm not doing it.
WEST: West takes a leap of faith. and finally, so does
GORDON: Oh shit!
GORDON: I just remembered. I can't swim!
WEST: You won't have to!
WEST: Maybe I should have stayed inside that fence another moment or two.
WEST: All right, Gordon, what's your plan? How are you gonna get this damn thing off my neck?
GORDON: Excuse me?
WEST: Isn't that why you're here? 'Cause you're the master of, you know, mechanical stuff?
GORDON: ( smiles ) Oh. Oh, I see. Now I'm the master of. 'mechanical stuff.' As opposed to five minutes ago, when I was trying to collect my thoughts and figure out a way to get us out of these contraptions! But no! That wouldn't have been any fun for a certain somebody, and I won't mention any names Jim West! who decided to take me on a bracing romp through a cornfield and play a fanciful game of hide and seek with serrated, spinning death discs, while our only mode of transportation is in the hands of a sadistic madman with weapons of mass destruction, who kidnapped Rita, and is on his way to kill our President and take over the Hey, calm down, Gordon.
GORDON: That wouldn't have been any fun for a certain somebody, and I won't mention any names Jim West! who decided to take me on a bracing romp through a cornfield and play a fanciful game of hide and seek with serrated, spinning death discs, while our only mode of transportation is in the hands of a sadistic madman with weapons of mass destruction, who kidnapped Rita, and is on his way to kill our President and take over the Hey, calm down, Gordon.
WEST: Hey, calm down, Gordon.
GORDON: ( he's completely No! Because I'm the 'Master of Mechanical Stuff!' And I have to help YOU! Because you're the 'Master of Stupid Stuff!'
WEST: You want to get that collar off? Fine! Let's do it the fun, Jim West way! Let's bash it with a rock!
GORDON: You want to get that collar off? Fine! Let's do it the fun, Jim West way! Let's bash it with a rock!
WEST: Gordon, you don't want to do that.
GORDON: ( crazy ) Oh, but I do.
CLANG!: ( suddenly calm ) That's odd. What did you do?
GORDON: ( suddenly calm ) That's odd. What did you do?
WEST: I didn't do shit!
GORDON: No, you must've reversed the polarity of the magnets.
WEST: I did not do shit! That's it
GORDON: Are you all right?
WEST: Oh, I'm peachey. Now help me get my boot off!
WEST: Apologies, apologies.
GORDON: Apologies, apologies.
WEST: Do me a favor. When you're telling this story to your grandkids, leave this part out.
GORDON: Don't worry.
WEST: Now, when I undo your belt, I'm going to run as fast as I can that way, and you run as fast as you can the other way. You're going to run as fast as you can one way and I'm going to run as fast as I can the other.? One. two.
GORDON: You're going to run as fast as you can one way and I'm going to run as fast as I can the other.? One. two.
WEST: One. two.
WEST: ( rolling face up ) Get off me, you steaming pile of
GORDON: ( rolling face up ) I'm trying, you son of a ( GURGLE )!
WEST: ( rolling face upGURGLE ) you!
GORDON: ( rolling face upGURGLE ) yourself!
WEST: I do not want to spend the rest of my life looking like a meatball on a plate.
GORDON: We're going to have to discuss bathroom etiquette soon. Very
GORDON: Aha. My auxiliary tool kit. I forgot all about it. It must've slipped out of my pocket.
WEST: Your pocket? Why wasn't it attached to some spring-loaded something-or-other that shoots out of your ass?
GORDON: Because that, my friend, would be
WEST: Why didn't you tell me you had an 'auxiliary' tool kit?
GORDON: I did tell you, but in your zeal to run and leap off a two-hundred- foot cliff, I don't think you heard me.
WEST: Gordon looks to the heavens and recites.
GORDON: '. Take physic, pomp; Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel, That thou mayst shake the superflux to them, And show the heavens more just.'
GORDON: You know, Gordon, you can be quite annoying flaunting that fancy Well, truth be told, I never had a fancy education not a formal one, anyway.
WEST: You know, Gordon, you can be quite annoying flaunting that fancy Well, truth be told, I never had a fancy education not a formal one, anyway.
GORDON: Well, truth be told, I never had a fancy education not a formal one, anyway.
WEST: ( looks at Gordon's The Harvard thing seems pretty formal to me.
GORDON: This ring? This ring isn't real. Do you want it?
WEST: No. How did you wind up in this line of work?
GORDON: The pinnacle of my life in the theater came in a production of Our American Cousin a light comedy at Ford's Theater in Washington. There was this one line I had. always got the biggest laugh in the show. One night, it drowned out the gunshot that killed President I decided to devote my talents to making sure that never happened
GORDON: Uh. There's a spider on your hand. Doesn't that bother you?
WEST: She doesn't want any trouble. She's just trying to get warm.
GORDON: How come you know so much about the desert, anyway?
WEST: The Indians taught me. I lived out here when I was a boy.
WEST: Hey watch
WEST: The desert wasp. one of the world's great hunters. She'll kill the tarantula and lay her eggs on it, so her babies can have something to eat.
GORDON: Now I'm really hungry. How did your parents, who I assume were Negroes, feel about you being raised by Indians?
WEST: They didn't have much to say about it. I was sent to another plantation when I was little. Ran away as soon as my legs were strong enough to take me.
GORDON: Did you ever see your family
WEST: ( stands, kicks They were at the camp at New I'll help you get him, Jim.
GORDON: I'll help you get him, Jim.
GORDON: You have no idea where you're going, do you?
WEST: I know exactly where I'm goin' . Spider Canyon.
WEST: ( stops, looks back ) But I'm never gonna get there with you draggin' that damn thing around!
GORDON: While a magneto of this power may not inspire your scientific curiosity, it does mine. Besides, you never know when it might come in handy.
WEST: Arte. when you're right, you're Well I think our partnership is taking a big step forward. You finally admitted I was right about
GORDON: Well I think our partnership is taking a big step forward. You finally admitted I was right about
GORDON: Now. how about admitting you were lost?
WEST: Don't push it.
GORDON: Jim, I know I've hallucinated it several times before, so is that really the Wanderer?
WEST: That's the Wanderer.
GORDON: And would it be too much to hope that I'm simply seeing a World's Fair down there. ?
WEST: Yeah, it would. That's Loveless'
GORDON: Now that's impressive.
WEST: Nice to see an invention that actually works.
GORDON: ( dismissive ) We'll see about that. The fool doesn't even realize he's trapped.
WEST: Gordon, let's ride! You do know how to ride.?
WEST: . A horse, I mean.
GORDON: ( distracted ) Yes. I know how to ride a horse. When the situation calls for something primitive.
WEST: How about now? There's a big spider stompin' towards our
GORDON: I was just thinking about another spider. Remember in the desert, when that little wasp killed the
WEST: Yeah. Well, the wasp had a small advantage. It could fly.
GORDON: Gordon excitedly shows the book to West. Pictured is an archaic sepia diagram of a weird aircraft. West looks at it in disbelief as Gordon prattles on manically.
GORDON: In 1540, Leonardo Da Vinci invented a flying machine called the 'Ornithopter.' Though he never actually flew it.
WEST: Artemus! There's no time for plans or half-cocked inventions! They don't work. We gotta stick to what we're each good at!
PRESIDENT GRANT: . as this railroad unites the two great oceans of this world.
LOVELESS: Well, isn't this a coincidence! I'm out for a little mornin' ride, and right in the middle of nowhere, I bump into General Ulysses S. Grant himself! We've never been properly introduced. I'm Dr. Arliss Loveless, formerly with the Confederate Army.
BRIDGE ): Cool and collected, Grant lights a cigar.
PRESIDENT GRANT: Yes, Dr. Loveless, what can I do for you today? Flank him, left and right.
LOVELESS: I have a humble abode nearby, and I hope you'll accept my hospitality. I have a little proposition to make.
PRESIDENT GRANT: What proposition is that?
LOVELESS: The unconditional and immediate surrender of the United States of America to the Loveless Alliance.
PRESIDENT GRANT: I didn't realize we were at war.
LOVELESS: How about now.?
POINT ): Loveless, squinting down at the two Grants. This new wrinkle has also attracted the attention of the Love-lettes and everyone else aboard.
LOVELESS: Now just who are you?
PRESIDENT GRANT: ( aside ) Gordon, you've got a lot of brass. Where's West?
GORDON: You know him, sir.
LOVELESS: Take them both!!!
PRESIDENT GRANT: Well, Gordon. was this part of your plan?
GORDON: I'm by your side, sir. That's what's important.
LOVELESS: Bonjour, buenas tardes and good day! Great glorious day! A day of healing for the wrongs that have been done to us all!
LOVELESS: . Oh, how long have we waited!
LOVELESS: ( looks to . 1776, wasn't it, old bean? Most expensive cup o' tea in
LOVELESS: ( looks to Hudson Manhattan for a handful of beads? ( raises his hand; ( to the Mexicans ) Remember the Alamo indeed! ( humbly to crowd ) Today I'm proud to be able to sit before you and tell you the wrongs will be righted. the past made present. the United, divided!
LOVELESS: Great Britain gets back the thirteen original colonies. minus Manhattan. Florida and the Fountain of Youth go back to Spain! Texas, New Mexico, California, Arizona revolve a Mexico! And the Louisiana Purchase reverts back to the King of France!
RITA: Queen of Spain. King of France. I was close.
MUNITIA: ( jostles her ) Shut up and listen to a real
LOVELESS: And a tiny piece for me to retire
LOVELESS: My partner nations insist that we make this as legal as possible. Personally, I like the symmetry of it. After all wasn't it you who made us sign a surrender at
PRESIDENT GRANT: Never will I sign that paper, never will the United States ever Well, sir, we're at loggerheads then, aren't we? And I suppose the threat of death to someone with your valorous war record, would mean nothing.
LOVELESS: Well, sir, we're at loggerheads then, aren't we? And I suppose the threat of death to someone with your valorous war record, would mean nothing.
LOVELESS: . so, if you still refuse to sign this surrender. we'll start by shooting your man, Gordon.
RITA: Artemus smiles at her, extremely brave under the circumstances. He whispers to Rita and the President.
GORDON: ( tugs at his vest ) Don't worry, I'm wearing the
GORDON: If I may have one request. it's that she aim at my heart. which has loved this great country so Shoot him in the head.
LOVELESS: ( considers for a moment ) Shoot him in the head.
GORDON: Munitia cocks her rifle, then just as Loveless holds his hands up for the signal to fire. the lights dim.
CHANTEUSE: ( singing ) 'Ohhh. Hangtown gals are plump and rosy.'
CHANTEUSE: ( singing ) 'Hair in ringlets, mighty cozy.'
LOVELESS: A new girl! What a nice surprise!
CHANTEUSE: 'Painted cheeks and frilly Touch them.'
CHANTEUSE: '. And they'll sting like
LOVELESS: ( making her name up Ebonia! Why are you so cruel to
GORDON: ( musing to himself ) I have a dress like that.
CHANTEUSE: ( singing ) 'Hangtown gals are lovely Think they'll marry Mormon
CHANTEUSE: ( singing ) 'Heads thrown back to show their
COLEMAN: Go, Ebonia, go.
WEST: ( singing ) Ha. Ha. Hangtown girls.
GORDON: Not to sound ungrateful, but you're a little over the top.
WEST: ( sings ) Ha. Ha. Ha.
GORDON: Let me warn you about that Gotta go. Big finish. 'Ha, ha, ha! Hangtown gals!!!'
WEST: Gotta go. Big finish. 'Ha, ha, ha! Hangtown gals!!!'
PRESIDENT GRANT: Where'd those come from.?
COLEMAN: ( nods to Ebonia ) Captain West.
RITA: She's. no.!
WEST: ( singing ) 'Ha, ha, ha. Hang. Town.
WEST: ( suddenly blinks ) Wait a minute. What the hell is this?
RITA: Serves you right for staring at
LOVELESS: Kill him! Him! Him! The girl!
GORDON: Was that the eight ball?
WEST: Gordon grabs West and Rita, pulls them behind the bar.
GORDON: That one's an incendiary bomb.
RITA: ( disappearing into Meet me after the show!
COLEMAN: Special Marshal. President thought you needed some lookin'
DUSK: As fire engulfs the place, Loveless has no choice but to retreat. for now. Surrounded by a cadre of his women, who carry the unconscious President Grant, Loveless heads through a round STEEL VAULT DOOR. As Amazonia swings the door closed, the foreign dignitaries BANG on the door begging for admittance.
FRENCH MINISTER: Monsieur, we are your partners! You can't let us die in this It's not the first time y'all have been burned in America.
LOVELESS: It's not the first time y'all have been burned in America.
COLEMAN: This is diabolical! They've got the President and I've still got that silly song in my head!
GORDON: ( freaking out ) C'mon we gotta go! We gotta ride horse! Something!
WEST: No, Arte. Right now, we need a plan.
WEST: That flyin' machine idea of yours. were you just acting like you knew what you were talking about. or could you build it?
WEST: You're not makin' me feel any
COLEMAN: Here's a coupla bon voyage Coleman! Must you smoke when handling explosives!
GORDON: Coleman! Must you smoke when handling explosives!
WEST: He's just a little nervous 'cause no one's ever flown before.
WEST: Avant.! Avant!!!
GORDON: We're not getting enough lift! We need more speed!
WEST: Hey, uh. that's the cliff over there, you know?
GORDON: Yes, I do know.
GORDON: ( amazed ) It worked.? It worked!!
WEST: ( looking down ) If you had to get one right, I'm real glad it was this one.
GORDON: ( exhilarated, with
LOVELESS: Mr. President, I'll ask you once again. Sign the surrender or I decimate this town!
PRESIDENT GRANT: You've had my answer.
LOVELESS: ( as he puts in earplugs ) I find the sound of people screaming while they get blown to smithereens, ruins the ear for music. Don't you?
LOVELESS: Commence firing!
GORDON: I think I'll call it.
WEST: Lemme guess. an Elevation Enhancer?
GORDON: ( why would you No, Air. Gordon.
WEST: Go down, down there!
GORDON: ( as if to a child ) You can't just 'go down there.' Flight depends on lift, which must be calibrated to the angle of Shut up and go down there, will
WEST: Shut up and go down there, will
LOVELESS: Well, Mr. President. Have you had enough yet? Would you like to sign the surrender or shall we set a course for Denver? Wichita? Washington, perhaps?
DUSK: West and Gordon swooping down low. West unfastens BOMBS from his vest, waits for the right moment. As they swing past the Tarantula cannon, he drops them. BOOM! BOOM! The big gun falls limp.
DUSK: West and Gordon banking around for another sortie.
PRESIDENT GRANT: Well, I'll be damned. it's West and Gordon. flying!
PRESIDENT GRANT: Keep that surrender handy. I think you're going to need it!
LOVELESS: Don't be too sure. I'm through with diplomacy. Take him away and kill him!
LOVELESS: I'm through with diplomacy. Take him away and kill him!
DUSK: The BULLETS PERFORATE the Desert's Wasp's wings and BLAST through its STRUTS. They're going down!
WEST: What does your boy da Vinci say about puttin' this bird down?
GORDON: I don't think he thought it would ever work, so he didn't get that far. I'm open to suggestions.
WEST: Take out as many bad guys out as you can.
LOVELESS: Munitia! Munitia!!!
GORDON: Sorry about that, sir. Nose up, flaps down. Have to remember that next time.
PRESIDENT GRANT: Son, never apologize for saving a President's life.
LOVELESS: Gentlemen, I am truly impressed by your effort and ingenuity. Why not swear an oath of loyalty to me. and forego your executions.
WEST: Why not? Well, I guess maybe I'd rather see what happens when I stuff your ass into that cannon up there and fertilize the Uh, Jim, I think a polite 'no' would suffice.
GORDON: Uh, Jim, I think a polite 'no' would suffice.
LOVELESS: Lippenreider, take over the We may not have a woodshed on board, but that boy is gonna get a whoopin' anyway!
KNIFE GUY: He's a mess. no hands, just brass collars where they used to be. They lock eyes.
WEST: So, I guess you're the one who's gonna give me my whoopin'.
WEST: Pfft. I got one a' those.
WEST: But you've got two of those. Okay, lemme talk to Gordon, I'll see if he can.
WEST: West rolls onto the railing to avoid the attack. Sparks fly as the Knife Guy tries to slice and dice West but misses each time, hitting the metal railing instead. West rolls to the floor, sucking air. Knife Guy lands a kick to West's ribs. And to make matters worse.
WRENCH GUY: just showed up. He swings his wrench at West's head. West ducks but gets kicked in the back. He sails across the room, lands flat on his back. Now.
SHOVEL GUY: makes an appearance. He hammers his shovel at West's groin, over and over. ( West is in a crab position and backs up to avoid this. ) West finally gets a kick in it does a moderate amount of damage. Wrench Guy appears and swings his huge wrench at West's head. West escapes it, barely. Knife Guy thrusts a side-kick at West's chest, but West catches his foot, holds on for dear life.
HANGING CHAIN: which he grabs. He scales the gears, gets a solid grip, then swings, a huge arc across the room, gaining momentum, and kicks Shovel Guy and Wrench Guy at the same time! Off their feet they go, slamming onto the metal floor. West lands. Knife Guy attacks. West uses the chain to block the blades which are flying at him, left and right. Sparks fly. West manages to wrap the chain around one of the knives, locks it down, and heaves it into the gears. the blade snaps.
WEST: No more Mister Knife guy!
SHOVEL GUY: I learned that from a Chinaman.
WEST: I just made that up.
WEST: Don't forget your shovel!
WEST: ( upward ) Is that all you got for me,
METAL HEAD: all seven feet of him. The top of his head is a metal plate. Extending downward, encircling his eyes. West soaks him in, sighs.
WEST: Uh, I just threw my shovel out. So this really isn't fair. If you don't mind, I'd like to.
WEST: ( incredulous )
WRENCH: He picks it up and starts swinging! A shot to the body . PING! Then another. PING! Then another. PINGGGG! Metal Head lurches forward, absorbing each blow with not so much as a twitch of the eye. West furries. PING! PING! PING! PING!. nothing! He goes for the head. PINNNNNNGGGG!. nothing! West is out of time. He's been backed up as far as he can go. His heels are dangling over the mouth of the beast, a thousand feet above the rocky cliff.
WEST: ( CONTINUED )
METAL HEAD: West side-steps and Metal Head falls face first into the open air.
WEST: ( downward ) You guys just don't get out
WEST: When you get right down to it, Loveless, you just can't beat a good pair of legs.
LOVELESS: ( thin smile ) You're obviously not a poker player, Mr. West.
LOVELESS: Two pair always beats a pair.
LOVELESS: Now. Was it someone particularly close to you who perished in that military action?
LOVELESS: ( stunned ) Hmmm. Well, that hit a nerve. A mother, perhaps? A father?
LOVELESS: A mother, perhaps? A father?
LOVELESS: It feels so good to stretch my
LOVELESS: I likes to beat my feet on the Mississippi mud!
GORDON: Stop this violence!
PRESIDENT GRANT: Drop 'em.
LOVELESS: You expect to kill me with that little pea shooter?
GORDON: If I have to. Yes.
LOVELESS: Why is it, that I'm unafraid? I believe you gentlemen are the polar opposites of a moral dilemma and I'm stuck in the middle. On one end, we have Mr. West, a man of primitive vigours uncomplicated by intellect. And on the other, there's Mr. Gordon. A man of ideas, but unlike myself, lacks the passion to kill for them. He'd like to be able to act his way out of it. And for some reason when he's actin', someone always seems to get killed.
WEST: ( gasps ) Shoot him, Gordon.!
LOVELESS: I'm right about you, aren't I, Gordon? And that's why I'm gonna kill your friend here. Then I'm going to kill you.
LOVELESS: After all that, you missed.
GORDON: Not exactly. Better than a fountain pen, don't you think. By the way, your chivalry's about to be tested.
WEST: Better than a fountain pen, don't you think. By the way, your chivalry's about to be tested.
PRESIDENT GRANT: ( to Gordon, impressed ) We'll be joining them in a moment if you can't stop that thing!
PRESIDENT GRANT: Let's see how clever you really For almost four long years I've been trackin' the animal responsible for the Massacre at New Liberty. And I hear that's you.
WEST: For almost four long years I've been trackin' the animal responsible for the Massacre at New Liberty. And I hear that's you.
LOVELESS: Please, West. show a little mercy to a poor defenseless cripple.
WEST: ( imitating his accent ) Now, now, Doctor. let's not cloud this otherwise sunny day with that poor-ol'-me-cripple-talk. Just buck up and say to yourself, 'I am indefatigably hard-pumpin' and
LOVELESS: After I kill ya, I swear I'm gonna boil you down to axle grease!
WEST: Now that's the ol' doctor I know!
LOVELESS: Well, I'll be a monkey's uncle. How did we arrive in this dark I don't know. Guess I'm stumped!
WEST: I don't know. Guess I'm stumped!
LOVELESS: And I'm so cotton-pickin' afraid of heights. They just give me the Ah, don't be afraid, Loveless. With this being the last leg of our journey and all, you should soak in the view, you're really missing something.
WEST: Ah, don't be afraid, Loveless. With this being the last leg of our journey and all, you should soak in the view, you're really missing something.
LOVELESS: Mister West, I'm gonna cut this conversation short.
WEST: Good one, Loveless. I didn't think of that one.
LOVELESS: ( furious ) Mister West!!! I am faced with a difficult decision here. On one hand, there is the overwhelming love that I have for myself, and on the other, the raw, seething hatred I have for you! Now, I could kill you very easily, just by pulling this lever.
LOVELESS: But, of course, I would die along with you. I guess the only thing that I can take comfort in is the hope that you would hit those rocks a second before me and I could enjoy immeasurable bliss before I vanish. What to do, what to do.
WEST: Allow me to make that decision easy on you, Loveless. Because I want to see you dead a hell of a lot more than I want to live.
LOVELESS: Why is it that I have a sneaking suspicion, that although you are as black as the night on the outside. inside, you are yellow?!
LOVELESS: You don't have it in you, do you. You were right. Let's cut this conversation short!
WEST: You were right. Let's cut this conversation short!
LOVELESS: A beat, then.
WEST: ( downward ) Now that looked like it hurt.
PRESIDENT GRANT: Gentlemen, I now strongly believe the United States is going to be truly united. Not because of this railroad. but because of you.
PRESIDENT GRANT: I've signed into law the creation of an agency whose sole duty is to protect the President and the country from lunatics like Welcome to the Secret Service, Agents No. 1 and No. 2.
GORDON: Uh, just out of curiosity, sir. who's Agent No. 1?
PRESIDENT GRANT: I don't think that matters very much, do you? Gordon? Besides, you'll have plenty of time to discuss it on your new assignment. See you back in Washington.
GORDON: But, sir. what about our train?
PRESIDENT GRANT: ( over shoulder ) Well, I'm taking it of course. Hell, you let Loveless blow up
WEST: Rita! You look great.
GORDON: Ravishing, a vision.
RITA: I just wanted to thank you for everything you've done for me. before I went back home to Texas.
WEST: Texas? Why're you going back there? Why don't you come with me back to Washington?
GORDON: Or better still, come with me to Washington. I could introduce you to people I still know in the She's not really an entertainer, I can't go with either of you.
WEST: She's not really an entertainer, I can't go with either of you.
RITA: ( intercedes ) I can't go with either of you.
RITA: It's not that you both don't have your attributes. You're so sophisticated and such a wonderful cook. Jim, you're good with a gun. and have great legs. And you're both so brave. But. I'm afraid I haven't been completely honest with you.
RITA: Professor Escobar's not my father. He's my husband. Rita. why didn't you just tell us that in the first place?
WEST: Rita. why didn't you just tell us that in the first place?
RITA: Well, I was going to. but would you have really brought me along if I said I was married?
RITA: I didn't think so.
RITA: At least you still have each
WEST: Besides. there's a lot of other women in the world.
GORDON: That's easy for you to say. She didn't walk off with your best
THE END: Writers : S. S. Wilson Brent Maddock Jeffrey Price Peter S. Seaman Jim Thomas John Thomas
