WIND CHILL: Written by Joseph Gangemi & Steven Katz
HER CELLPHONE: skittering sideways across the closed cover of her blue final exam book, like a bug. She has an INCOMING TEXT MESSAGE.
GIRL: - she's JOSTLED from behind by a CLASSMATE bolting past her. She hands in her exam book, waves to her friend, and exits.
GIRL: Do you think you could have parked any further from the entrance?
GUY: ( still a little groggy ) There were still cars when I got here. I thought we were going to get an early start to stay ahead of the snow?
GIRL: What time is it?
GUY: Quarter past three.
GIRL: I'm two hours late?! Shit. Sorry. You should've just left without me. That's what I would've done. Hurry up and pop the trunk so I can stow my shit. Jesus, I'm just going home for Christmas. What are you doing? Pulling up stakes and movin' your Oakie family to Californey?
GUY: I'm kinda getting kicked out of my apartment. I didn't have time to find someplace new before exams. Here, let me help you with that-
GIRL: Why don't you just get the engine started and put the heat on? I can handle this. Well? What are you waiting for? I thought you wanted to stay ahead of the snow? WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05 6.
GUY: Sorry. it sticks.
GUY: That's as far as it goes. Sorry.
GIRL: ( on her cell ) Where are you? ( listens ) No, we're just rolling out. ( listens ) . Believe me, I tried, but I couldn't get a flight. It's my own fault for waiting `til the last
GIRL: ( laughs; on her cell ) What, are you kidding? I'm bored to tears. No, we're still on the highway. how should I know, all highways look exactly alike. You going to be on that thing the
GUY: You going to be on that thing the
GIRL: ( on her cell ) Uh oh, somebody's upset. I better call you back. ( pause ) Who do you think? Ride Board Guy. Okay, `bye. ( blurting ) This isn't cool. If I have to drive, you have to talk to me.
GUY: ( blurting ) This isn't cool. If I have to drive, you have to talk to me.
GIRL: What, I'm the in-flight That's how this ride-sharing thing works. Division of labor. We split everything fifty-fifty. Get it?
GUY: That's how this ride-sharing thing works. Division of labor. We split everything fifty-fifty. Get it?
GIRL: I've got news for you, I don't get much more entertaining than when I'm on the phone.
GUY: ( sarcastic ) This is turning out great.
GIRL: What's that mean?
GUY: Forget it.
GIRL: So you're from Wilmington, huh?
GUY: Where'd you go to school?
GIRL: Where'd you go to school?
GUY: ( falters for a second ) Um. Saint Vitus Academy.
GIRL: St. Vitus? You're making that up.
GUY: You're acquainted with every school in the area?
GIRL: Pretty much, yeah.
GUY: Including all the Catholic ones? Because that's where I went. Saint Vitus Academy for Catholic Boys.
GIRL: Okay, fine.
GUY: We had a class together, you know.
GIRL: Intro to Modern Philosophy.
GUY: Intro to Modern Philosophy.
GIRL: What? There were about a million people in that class. It was like Woodstock. Did you ever see so many Eastern religion types? So, what's your major?
GUY: Eastern religions. You aren't majoring in philosophy?
GIRL: No. Why?
GUY: I don't know. I just assumed.
GIRL: Why would you assume anything about me? We just met.
GUY: ( a little defensive ) I don't know. I guess you just. look like a philosophy major.
GIRL: Try engineering. I only took Philosophy because I need a humanities credit. I heard it was an easy `A.' Hey, that reminds me. What'd you put for the extra credit question on the final?
GUY: Nietzsche's theory of eternal Which is basically reincarnation, No, they're not really the same thing. Reincarnation is when you come back as something different and eternal recurrence is when you
GIRL: Which is basically reincarnation, No, they're not really the same thing. Reincarnation is when you come back as something different and eternal recurrence is when you
GUY: No, they're not really the same thing. Reincarnation is when you come back as something different and eternal recurrence is when you
GIRL: He died of syphilis, you know. High school and philosophy. Pretty much covers everything, don't you think? Guess that concludes the entertainment portion of today's
GIRL: ( concentrating ) Next gas station you see, do me a favor and pull over. I gotta pee.
GUY: Okay, I'll keep my eyes peeled. That phrase. `Keeping your eyes peeled.' It's kind of creepy, if you think about it.
GIRL: ( resumes painting ) That phrase. `Keeping your eyes peeled.' It's kind of creepy, if you think about it.
GUY: Huh. Actually, yeah, it is sorta. . Speaking of peeling eyeballs. Did you know that's how they do that corrective eye surgery?
GIRL: They use a laser.
GUY: Well, yeah, they do. But there's definitely peeling involved too. I saw it on Discovery Health. If more people knew about the peeling part they might think twice before going under the knife.
GIRL: Right, laser.
GUY: Right, laser.
GIRL: I'm having corrective eye surgery over the break.
GUY: An awkward beat.
GIRL: It's okay. I'm not really worried.
GUY: I'm not worried?
GIRL: I'm not worried?
GUY: You're getting it done.
GIRL: Because I hate wearing glasses.
GUY: But they look good on you.
GIRL: How do you know? I don't wear them outside my dorm.
GUY: You sure? You never. to class or anything? Because I could swear I-
GIRL: Huh. Weird. I wonder why I thought- Hey, look! Here's your gas station!
GUY: Huh. Weird. I wonder why I thought- Hey, look! Here's your gas station!
LATER: He starts the pump. Notices her still seated in the car. He knocks on her window. She opens the door.
GUY: I thought you had to pee?
GIRL: I didn't expect us to find a bathroom so soon. My nails aren't Well if you want, I can carry you.
GUY: He looks over the roof of the car, sizing up the distance across the slushy parking lot.
GIRL: That's okay, they'll be dry in just a second.
GUY: Come on, I'm good at this.
GIRL: You are not carrying me inside.
GUY: Hold on.
GIRL: What are you doing?! Wait -
GIRL: He just stands there. She taps him on the shoulder.
GUY: He just stands there. She taps him on the shoulder.
GIRL: You can let me down now.
GUY: He crouches so she can slide off. She gives him a look, slips on the pair of flip-flops she's brought with her, then heads off in search of the ladies bathroom. Meanwhile, our guy saunters up toward the front of the convenience store. He nods to the twitchy CLERK, 20s, engrossed in a tattoo fetish magazine behind the counter.
GIRL: HEY. HEY, I'M LOCKED IN HERE!
GIRL: Didn't you hear me banging in You think it's funny? Me locked in?
GUY: ( startled; puzzled smile ) You think it's funny? Me locked in?
GIRL: You think it's funny? Me locked in?
GUY: Locked in where?
GIRL: You're telling me you didn't just hear me banging on the door?
GUY: I don't know what you're-
GIRL: ( cuts him off ) Forget it. Let's just get on the
CLERK: Remember, highway's your best bet-
GUY: ( dismissive ) Don't worry about it man, I got it all covered.
GIRL: Are we lost or something?
GUY: ( quickly ) No, I've made this drive a million
GUY: What's that for?
GIRL: My half of the gas.
GUY: Keep it.
GIRL: What do you mean? Isn't that how ride-sharing works? We split everything fifty-fifty?
GUY: I don't take money from friends.
GIRL: What the hell are you doing!?
GUY: Scenic detour.
GIRL: ( panicking ) No way! Get back on the highway.
GUY: Relax, I checked it out on the map. It looks interesting.
GIRL: I mean it, get back on the highway right now! This is not going to
GUY: Will you chill. It's a shortcut. We'll be back on the highway before you know it.
GUY: Not many radio stations out here.
GIRL: We're in a valley. FM radio waves travel in a straight line. They can't penetrate big obstacles like hills. Try AM.
GUY: Where were you when I was flunking freshman physics?
GIRL: So. Does your family do the whole traditional Christmas thing?
GUY: No, my grandparents are Dutch, so I was raised on salted licorice and How's that different from the regular Santa Claus?
GIRL: How's that different from the regular Santa Claus?
GUY: Instead of the North Pole, he lives in Spain. And instead of elves he's got an enforcer named Black Pete. Basically he's like your Santa, only scarier.
GIRL: What's your Christmas like?
GUY: What's your Christmas like?
GIRL: My folks split my freshman year, so I spend the holidays racing between them. Two trees. two turkey dinners.two sets of presents to return for store credit. So normally I can deal, but this year mom decided to rent a condo at the beach. Which is like, what? Two hours away.
GUY: I don't know. The beach can be sort of nice in the winter. Romantic.
GIRL: So were you a Rehobeth beach family or Stone Harbor?
GUY: Stone Harbor.
GIRL: We always went to Rehobeth. Year in and year out. Jesus, I've never been more bored in my life. I was always so jealous of my friends who spent summers at the Jersey shore.
GUY: Me too.
GIRL: Stone Harbor is the Jersey shore.
GUY: ( evasive ) Hm? Oh, yeah, I know. What I meant You aren't from Delaware, are you?
GIRL: You aren't from Delaware, are you?
GUY: Well, see, it's kind of complicated-
GIRL: Who are you?!
GUY: I'm exactly who I said I was, am, it's just-
GIRL: What the hell's going on here?
GUY: Nothing's going on-
GIRL: WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON HERE!? Look, just calm down. I can explain-
GUY: Look, just calm down. I can explain-
GIRL: You think he doesn't see us?
GUY: How can he not?
GIRL: Pull over and let this asshole by.
GUY: Over where? There's no shoulder.
BRENDA LEE: Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, at the Christ-mas par-ty hop.
BRENDA LEE: Mistletoe hung where you can see, Ev'ry couple tries to STOP. Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, have a happy hol-i-day. Later we'll have some pumpkin pie, and do some car-
BRENDA LEE: You will get a sen-ti-men-tal fee- ling when you hear. Voices singing "Let's be jolly, DECK the halls with boughs of holly".
GIRL: He's not stopping!
GUY: Hold on!
BRENDA LEE: Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, Have a happy hol-i-day. Everyone's dancing mer-ri-ly in the New. Old. Fash-ioned. Wa-a-ay!
GIRL: . please. please. please.
GIRL: C-Calling 9-1-1. Or trying to.
GUY: Any luck?
GIRL: ( shakes head `no' ) Can't. I can't get a signal here. What about yours?
GUY: I don't have a cell.
GIRL: How can you not have a cell?
GUY: ( ignoring her ) How're you doing? You all right?
GIRL: I. yeah, I'm okay. Nothing broken. What about you?
GUY: I don't know. Think I hit my head.
GIRL: Asshole who ran us off the road.
GUY: Asshole who ran us off the road.
GIRL: I don't know. I guess maybe he decided just to hit and run.
GUY: So where are his tire tracks?
GIRL: In case you haven't noticed, it's coming down pretty hard.
GUY: ( points ) Yeah, but you can still see our What the hell?!
GIRL: ( to herself ) This doesn't make any sense.
GUY: ( calling )
HELLO!: She jumps at the sound of his voice, her nerves frazzled.
GIRL: What now?
GUY: I guess we see how bad we're stuck. You steer, I'll push.
GIRL: ( calling )
GUY: ( calling ) ( calling ) Give it more gas!
GUY: Hey, open up. You wanna pop the locks? You gonna unlock the door or what?
GIRL: Better get used to it, asshole.
GUY: What the hell is wrong with you? What did I do?
GIRL: You drove us here, that's what you did!! What the hell did you think you were doing!?
GUY: I thought I was driving you home.
GIRL: You're not driving me home because one, you don't live near my home and two, this piece of shit isn't driving anywhere. Now what are we doing here? Why did you get off the I told you, this is a shortcut. Anyway, you were the one who said she was so bored on the highway. This used to be called `Scenic 606' because there's an amazing view of the valley-
GUY: I told you, this is a shortcut. Anyway, you were the one who said she was so bored on the highway. This used to be called `Scenic 606' because there's an amazing view of the valley-
GIRL: One, you've never been anywhere near here before so don't pretend you knew it's a shortcut, and two, there's an amazing view of shit
GUY: Let me get this straight. You think I intentionally arranged for us get stranded out here?! It was an
GIRL: ( raving ) Maybe! Maybe he's like your Black Pete or something! Why the hell did you tell me that story anyway?
GUY: You're crazy.
GIRL: ( lying ) Anyway, I've got news for you. I got through to a friend's voicemail while you were supposedly unconscious. I'm sure she's called the cops by now.
GUY: Would you listen to yourself? What kind of psycho do you think I am?
GIRL: He straightens, exasperated, puts a hand to his injured head. She looks at him standing there, hugging himself against the sub-zero cold, his teeth chattering. He doesn't look like an She doesn't know what to do. There's a long beat. Finally, he throws up his hands in disgust, decides to go to Plan B.
GUY: I'm gonna walk back to the gas station for help. You've got the heater and the radio, so you should be all right here. Though I really think you should consider coming with me.
GIRL: I bet you do.
GUY: ( pissed ) Fine. Whatever. If you feel a draft and you want to patch this.
GIRL: ( sarcastic ) I bet you do.
GUY: BUT IT'S MY CAR!!
RADIO PSA: . The National Weather Service has issued a Winter Storm Warning for the entire Eastern Seaboard. . Carbon County residents can expect snow accumulations of four to six inches. . State and local officials are urging residents to remain indoors,
GIRL: No reaction from the stranger. Again, nothing. Maybe he's deaf? She moves out from behind the safety of the car door and starts after the stranger, keeping her distance as she calls:
GUY: She SCREAMS.
GIRL: Stay away from me! Whoa! Take it easy. What's wrong?
GUY: Whoa! Take it easy. What's wrong?
GIRL: You! Everything! The guy-
GUY: What guy?
GIRL: I don't know, it was weird. I saw some guy walking down the road.
GUY: Where did he go?
GIRL: I don't know. Into the woods.
GUY: Look. It's freezing out here. Let's just get in the car and you can tell me what happened.
GIRL: ( paranoid ) What are you doing back so soon? What about hiking to the gas It was closed. I was going to leave a note, but I didn't. You know. Have anything to write with.
GUY: It was closed. I was going to leave a note, but I didn't. You know. Have anything to write with.
GIRL: But those places are supposed to stay open 24/7! Why wasn't it open?
GUY: How the hell should I know?! Independent operator. Look, can we continue this conversation in the car, `cause I'm freezing my balls off standing out here.
GIRL: ( shrieks ) I'm not getting into the car with you, you psycho!!!
GUY: Fine. Whatever. I'm getting in. You're welcome to join me.
GUY: - and switches off the overhead interior lights, explaining: With the interior light off the car fills with an otherwordly blue glow reflected off the snow. She pulls her knees up as if trying to make herself as small as she can, to position herself as far away from him as is humanly possible on a bench seat. Her eyes cut to the DASHBOARD CLOCK. She frowns.
GIRL: That's not right. The clock.
GUY: ( checks watch ) Huh? No, it's not. It should
GIRL: You're bleeding.
GUY: You're bleeding.
GIRL: You're bleeding.
GUY: It's nothing.
GIRL: It doesn't look like nothing.
GUY: Scalp wounds bleed a lot. Head wounds in general. That's why, if you're ever in a bar fight, the thing to do is pick up a bottle and smash the other guy across the bridge of his nose. It'll make his eyes fill with blood and snot, and buy you enough time to run away.
GIRL: ( softening, amused ) That's really useful, thanks. So where are you from, really?
GUY: ( eyes closed ) Place called Glens Falls.
GIRL: That's not in Delaware.
GUY: That's, like, in the complete opposite direction!
GIRL: That's, like, in the complete opposite direction!
GUY: That's like twenty minutes from All right, all right, so I lied.
GIRL: That's like twenty minutes from All right, all right, so I lied.
GUY: All right, all right, so I lied.
GIRL: Eyes still closed, he answers in a flat uninflected voice.
GUY: I just thought you seemed cool. I don't have a line or a `game' or whatever the hell it's called. So when I saw a chance to get you alone for six uninterrupted hours, I took it.
GIRL: But how did you know where I lived?
GUY: Asked around.
GIRL: Which explains how you found out I was from Delaware. But not how you knew I needed a ride home. I mean, I always fly. How could you possibly know that for, like the
GUY: ( bitter ) Forgive me for attempting a romantic gesture.
GIRL: Romantic? Try stalkerish.
GUY: Not if things worked out between us.I would've told you everything eventually, and then it wouldn't be stalkerish. It would just be this sweet funny story we'd have.
GIRL: He sits up sharply, temper boiling over, glaring at her.
GUY: Okay, you've made your point! I'm a creep who gets off on chauffeuring women under false pretenses. Can we drop this already? Christ. I'm starving. You hungry? Did you see a bag of groceries in the trunk?
GIRL: No. Oh, shit. I think I might've left it in the parking lot.
GUY: I'm sorry. It was an accident-
GIRL: I'm sorry. It was an accident-
GUY: Shit! I spent sixty bucks on this gourmet crap you like! Saint Andre's cheese and Carr's crackers and those stupid little French pickles, I forget what they're Cornichons. I love cornichons.
GIRL: ( quietly ) Cornichons. I love cornichons.
GUY: I know.
GUY: I think I remember losing pack of Big Red down the back seat cushions last week.
GIRL: Suddenly his hand shoots out and seizes her wrist holding the scissors. Her eyes go wide in terror and she starts to resist, but his grip is too strong.
GUY: ( gritted teeth ) Let go, goddamnit.
GIRL: Give them to me!
GUY: Give them to me!
GIRL: With his free hand he reaches over and wrenches the scissors away from her, his eyes flashing. She gives a little terrified whimper as he pulls her close, brandishes the
GUY: I need these.
GUY: I still can't believe you left all our food in a stupid parking lot.
GIRL: Look, I'm sorry, okay? I'll write you a check for sixty bucks if it will make you get off my case. I don't know what else I can say.
GUY: Let's just eat. Story of my life. Never fails.
GIRL: You. Girls. Women. You seem cool at WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05 45.
GUY: You. Girls. Women. You seem cool at WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05 45.
GIRL: What the hell are you talking You should all come with a warning, like car mirrors: "Objects in belly shirts are flakier than they You want to talk about fake? How about guys who pretend to be from Delaware to meet girls?
GUY: You should all come with a warning, like car mirrors: "Objects in belly shirts are flakier than they You want to talk about fake? How about guys who pretend to be from Delaware to meet girls?
GIRL: You want to talk about fake? How about guys who pretend to be from Delaware to meet girls?
GUY: How about we just stop talking That's perfect. Because now that I'm not some Nietzche-spouting sexbot, suddenly I'm not worth knowing. And who's fault is that?
GIRL: That's perfect. Because now that I'm not some Nietzche-spouting sexbot, suddenly I'm not worth knowing. And who's fault is that?
GUY: ( CONTINUED )
GIRL: Oh shit.
GUY: Oh shit.
GIRL: Fuel tank must've been ruptured in the accident.
GUY: Can you fix it?
GIRL: Not unless you have a welding rig in all that shit of yours. And even if you did, it wouldn't matter. We're out of gas.
GUY: But we still have the battery, As long as we use it sparingly, it should last the night. Question is, will we?
GIRL: As long as we use it sparingly, it should last the night. Question is, will we?
GUY: What do you mean?
GIRL: No engine. no heat.
GUY: He rolls into the back, fishes his suitcase out of the mess.
GIRL: But I didn't bring anything.
GUY: Ah, Jesus.
GIRL: ( defensive ) I'm sorry, but who could prepare for something like this?! I've got a complete winter wardrobe, it's just in Delaware. And no, that doesn't make me a flake!
GUY: What's the matter?
GIRL: I'm freezing. I can't feel my toes.
GUY: Me neither. You know, there is a better way for two people to conserve body heat-
GIRL: Dream on.
GUY: Gotta pee.
GIRL: Gotta pee.
GUY: ( testy ) Why didn't you go before, when we were outside?
GIRL: Because it's freezing out. We're talking about an arctic air mass out of Canada.
GUY: It's still freezing out-
GIRL: Yeah, but now I've got to go. Promise not to look.
GUY: What?! What happened?! - Did you see? - They were right here! -
GIRL: ( still in shock ) - Did you see? - They were right here! -
GUY: Why didn't you stop them?! Maybe they have a phone!
GIRL: Where'd they go?!
GUY: She looks where he's pointing with the flashlight-
GUY: Gotta - just a sec - catch my -
GIRL: ( still unnerved ) Maybe we should go back to the car.
GUY: No! There must be a house or something. Keep going. I'll catch
GIRL: ( reluctantly )
GUY: Hello? Hello?
HUMAN HANDS: frozen into claws, reaching from.
STRANGER: .please, officer, please don't.
GIRL: Determined not to let him vanish again, she takes off in pursuit, coming alongside him and keeping pace as he shuffles down the middle of the road.
STRANGER: .don't put me in the river.
GIRL: ( shocked ) Oh my god! Who did this to you?!
STRANGER: .please, officer, just take the booze and let me go.
GUY: It's okay! You're okay! It's okay!
GIRL: Where were you?
GUY: I was looking for those guys. I
GIRL: I.there was another guy.
GUY: What happened to you!? This looks like. oh jesus. like frostbite!
GIRL: I tried to. touch him.it burns.
GUY: Let's get back in the car.
GIRL: Where'd these come from?
GUY: There's the ruins of an old house or something back in the woods.
GIRL: Oh. Give me the duct tape.
GUY: Are you awake?
GIRL: ( teeth chattering ) Uh-huh. D-Don't want to sleep.
GUY: ( CONTINUED )
GIRL: Because I'm afraid I won't wake up. That's what they say happens. When
GUY: There are worse ways to go.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Everything all right in there?
GIRL: Thank God! You don't know how glad we are to see you.
GUY: .you won't believe what's been
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Having car trouble, huh?
GIRL: Someone ran us off the road.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: There's no parking here.
GUY: What are you talking about? We're not parking here. Didn't you hear what she said? Someone ran us off-
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: .Of course I might be willing to let you off with a warning this time. if we can come to some sort of arrangement.
GUY: What are you talking ab-
GIRL: ( whispers ) It's a shake-down. He's probably partners with the guy who ran us off the road. Wouldn't be surprised if he has a deal with the tow guy,
GUY: You think this whole thing was a scam? Jesus, he could've killed us!
GIRL: ( fierce whisper ) How much cash do you have on you? How many speeding tickets have you sweet-talked your way out of?
GIRL: This is all we have.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Some weather we're having.
GIRL: Yeah, it's really coming down. So what do you say? How `bout a little Christmas spirit here?
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: ( still facing away ) You know, this is one bad stretch of road. All kinds of trouble going on up here: Kids drag racing. Niggers hauling booze across the state lines. Lady drivers breaking down, no-one ever hears from them
GIRL: We just want to get out of here, so if you could just-
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Let me tell you, I've seen a lot of fatalities on this road. You're lucky I came along when I did. So why don't we get in my
GIRL: ( backing away ) I think maybe I just want to go YOU'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE!
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: YOU'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE!
GIRL: The cop is advancing toward her when suddenly he catches sight of something high on the hillside behind her that makes him stop. She glances over her shoulder to see what he's looking at: A LIGHT on the hilltop, where the burned-out ruins stand. And weirder still, there's a FIGURE in silhouette standing Someone watching. The cop darkens, enraged by this unwanted audience. His face contorts, fury building in him until he trembles with it. He rests his hand on the butt of his service revolver, says to her in a low urgent voice:
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Get in the damn patrol car.
GIRL: ( terrified; beginning to Please. just let us go.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Hurry up.we've got an audience.
GIRL: ( begging ) But we didn't do anything! Please! We won't tell anybody if you let us-
GIRL: ( stunned ) What just. out there.?
GUY: I don't know.
GIRL: ( unsure ) But it did happen, right? Or not.
HIS HANDS: Frostbitten, still clutching the crowbar. She tries to take it out of his bloody, blackened hands and he GASPS in agony.
GUY: Do it. How bad?
GIRL: Frostbite, second and third-degree.
GUY: How do you know? You take a first aid course or something?
GIRL: Ski camp, seventh grade. Don't make fun. What else do you have going on when you're thirteen?
GUY: ( weak ) I'm kinda not in the mood anymore.
GIRL: We have to rewarm your hands. You have ice crystals in your blood. If we don't get circulation restored you could lose your fingers.
GUY: What do you mean? You were there.
GIRL: I know, but who was he? Where'd he go? It's like one minute there's a, a gun to my head and the next all the lights go out and he's gone, like a, like a-
GUY: Her eyes cut to his, afraid, resistent to the very idea.
GIRL: Yes. And the old guys we chased-
GUY: Yes. And the old guys we chased-
GIRL: What then? How do you explain-
GUY: What then? How do you explain-
GIRL: I don't know! This is crazy! I can't be having this conversation.
GUY: ( forceful ) You're having it.
GIRL: I don't want to!
GUY: You think I do?! Jesus. I'm just as freaked by what's happening as you. But we have to deal with it, `cause like it or not, it is happening.
GIRL: Then how do we make it stop?
GUY: I don't know. They don't cover this in Philosophy 101.
GIRL: ( casting for ideas ) What about that book, in the back?
GUY: What book?
GIRL: Something Book of the Dead.
GUY: Tibetan. It's not a How-to manual. It's an 8th century Buddhist guide on death and dying.
GIRL: ( despairing ) God. Why is this happening to us?
GUY: ( hands on her belly ) I can feel your stomach rumbling.
GIRL: I know. God, I'd give anything for some of those Carr's crackers right So what else was in the grocery bag I forgot?
GUY: Um, let's see. Duck liver paté with Oh no.
GIRL: Oh no.
GUY: Some olives, the normal kind and also some of the little shrivelled black ones. A bottle of white And for dessert, anisette biscotti and a thermos of espresso.
GIRL: And for dessert, anisette biscotti and a thermos of espresso.
GUY: And for dessert, anisette biscotti and a thermos of espresso.
GIRL: ( ecstacy ) That's pretty much the exact meal I'd order for my last day on earth. I swear to god, if we ever get out of here I'm going to have to get a restraining order against-
GUY: Can't be too much longer until dawn. Someone's bound to come along then. A snowplow or something. How are your hands?
GIRL: How are your hands?
GUY: Starting to burn.
GIRL: That's good. It means the circulation's coming back.
GUY: ( winces ) Yeah, but I mean really burn.
GIRL: Hang on. I think I have a few Tylenol-with-codeine in my purse.
GUY: What's taking so long, nurse -
GIRL: I just-
GUY: Suddenly, the interior light fizzles out, making her jump. She reaches up and taps on it until it flickers back on.
GIRL: ". Hearing the crash on nearby Route 606, they braved inclement weather to administer Last That must be what we saw them
GUY: That must be what we saw them
GIRL: ". also killed was State Highway Patrolman. continued on page
GUY: ( gritted teeth ) You got that Tylenol?
GIRL: She climbs over into the back seat, feeds him two of the Tylenol with a sip of water from a bottle. Then stretches out alongside him again.
GUY: ( eyelids heavy ) I'll go first. You get some sleep.
GIRL: I'll go first. You get some sleep.
BRENDA LEE: Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, at the Christ-mas par-ty hop. Mistletoe hung where you can see, ev'ry couple tries to STOP -
GUY: Thank god! You were having some kind of seizure or someth- You will get a sen-ti-men-tal fee- ling when you hear. Voices singing "Let's be jolly, DECK the halls with boughs of holly".
BRENDA LEE: You will get a sen-ti-men-tal fee- ling when you hear. Voices singing "Let's be jolly, DECK the halls with boughs of holly".
GIRL: What's happening!?
GUY: It's him! Hurry! Help me! WIND CHILL - Yellow Revisions 2/23/05 73.
BRENDA LEE: Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, Have a happy hol-i-day.
GIRL: What happened?
GUY: I think. he's gone. I guess when he couldn't get in he gave up. I told you these `88 Olds were built like tanks! HAH! Next time pick on someone driving a Hyundai-
GIRL: Shhh! How do you know it's not a trick! He could still be out there He's not! Listen!
GUY: He's not! Listen!
GIRL: But what if he comes back..?
GUY: We just have to stay in the car until morning. Then we'll be safe. That can't be more than, like, a few more hours. Someone's bound to come along once the sun comes up. Someone human I mean. Think you can hold on until then?
GIRL: ( shy ) What if, you know. We have to pee?
GUY: We can use the empty water bottles. From this point on, the back seat is a co-ed bathroom. Sound like a Why don't you try to get some sleep? I'll take the next watch.
GIRL: I don't want to sleep.
GIRL: I gotta pee.
GUY: She climbs over into the back seat and crouches down, urinating as demurely as possible into an empty bottle.
GIRL: Stop talking.
GUY: You should ask Santa to bring you a bigger bladder.
GIRL: I'm serious! It's hard enough doing this in front of you.
GUY: What, are you one of those people who can't pee with the bathroom door open?
GIRL: No. But it's not something I usually do until much later in a What the hell is this? Is this How badly were you hurt in the No big deal. Just your average day in the NHL.
GUY: ( shrugs ) No big deal. Just your average day in the NHL.
GIRL: How long have you known?
GUY: Since I tried hiking back to the gas station. You were right, I never got anywhere near it. I
GIRL: Why didn't you tell me?
GUY: I didn't want to scare you-
GIRL: We've got to get you some help now. You won't make it to morning. I'm going to try and hike back to the gas station-
GUY: How far do you think you'd get out there before running into Mr. I'm not going to just sit here and watch you die! Damn it! We need a land line .
GIRL: I'm not going to just sit here and watch you die! Damn it! We need a land line .
GUY: What are you looking at?
GIRL: Telephone poles. They must have a junction box or something to test the lines . There! See that one?
GUY: She turns, leaning over the seatback to rummage among his junk in the back. She retrieves his old wall TELEPHONE, examines the jack at end of its cord.
GIRL: So maybe there's some way I can. I don't know. jack into it or something. Try and call for help.
GUY: You want to climb a telephone pole?
GIRL: Of course I don't want to! But it's got rungs. Can't be any harder than the climbing wall at my gym. Big fat repair guys do it all the time, right? Right?
GUY: But you're forgetting one thing.
GIRL: He's out there.
GUY: He's out there.
GIRL: The song! That old Christmas song on the radio. It always comes on just before he shows up. Keep listening. If `Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree' comes on, yell like hell. Hopefully I'll have enough time to get back.
GUY: ( weak ) I've been thinking.
GIRL: What about?
GUY: Eternal recurrence. Maybe it wouldn't be so bad.
GIRL: What wouldn't?
GUY: Repeating this life. Over and over. Exactly the same each time.
GIRL: Even the last twenty-four hours?
GUY: Know what I'd do different? Next time I'd just to walk up to you after class. and say "Hey."
GIRL: ( smiles ) You should. Definitely. Do that.
GUY: ( urgently ) Don't let me die out here-
RADIO PSA: The State Weather Bureau has issued an extreme cold warning.
GIRL: She fumbles in her coat, takes out the SCISSORS, uses them to try and pry open the junction box ( which turns out to be frozen shut, not locked after all. ) It finally yields, opening.
OPERATOR: ( filtered ) Nine-one-one emergency response.
GIRL: Thank god! Hi! Hello! We need help!
OPERATOR: ( filtered ) What's that? Can you repeat-
GIRL: We're on highway 606! Oh god, please hurry! We need help! My friend is hurt-
OPERATOR: Can you repeat your-
GIRL: Hello? Hello?
GIRL: ( chattering teeth ) - I did it - got through - but I don't know how much she understood - the operator I mean - - Just have to hope - maybe - they can trace the line -
HIS GHOST: standing outside the car, slack-expressioned and staring. He stands there a beat, then drifts off into the night.
GIRL: ( crying ) Sorry. sorry. I'm sorry.
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: You kids okay?
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: ( to C.B. ) Dispatch, come in.
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: I'm out at the site of that reported accident on 606. One of them didn't make it. I'm taking the other directly to the trauma unit in Hadleyville.
SIDEVIEW MIRROR: Where she sees the STRANDED OLDSMOBILE receding in the
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Been some real bad accidents on this road over the years. When I was growing up, there was a family from New York City found out here froze solid-
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: . fire department had to hose them down with hot water for two hours to thaw them out. I remember back in high school there was a stupid rumor going around if you went driving out here on moonless nights and looked up in your rearview, you might see the dead baby in your backseat .
GIRL: What about those ruins up on the hill? The retirement home for old Tragic story. Winter of `61 they were all found froze to death in their beds.
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Tragic story. Winter of `61 they were all found froze to death in their beds.
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Must've been a pilot on the boiler went out, or something. Actually, there's no big mystery why this is such a bad stretch of road for motorists. You got low- lying fog that gets trapped in the valley, reduces visibility to- Who in the hell is out driving in this mess?
GIRL: It's not Tom.
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Doesn't this stupid son of a gun realize we're bigger than him?! No way he's going to win this fight!
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Hang on, officer, I'm coming.
GIRL: She unbuckles her seatbelt, throws open the passenger door,
GIRL: ( calling down ) Wait! Don't go down there! Stop!
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Hang on, officer! We'll get you
GIRL: No!!! Don't go near it!!!
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: What!!? We have to get him out of
GIRL: Doesn't matter! He's already dead!
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: What the hell are you talking
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Should've known you vultures would turn up.
SNOWPLOW DRIVER: Try not to move, officer, you might have a neck injury.
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: What are you waiting for, a letter from the Bishop?
GIRL: Come on. We can go now. It's over.
MOVE!!: ( CONTINUED )
GIRL: ( urgently ) Come on, come on!
GUY: Get away from her, you bastard!
CELLPHONE: ( "Rockin Around the X-mas Ding-da-da DING, da-DING da-DING.
GIRL: ( crying; breathless )
GUY'S GHOST: .I would've told you everything
GIRL: I know.
GUY'S GHOST: .then it wouldn't be stalkerish.
GIRL: ( out of breath ) I know!
GUY'S GHOST: . It would just be this sweet funny story we'd have.
END FILM: ROLL CREDITS
ROLL CREDITS: Writers : Joseph Gangemi Steven Katz
