"WITNESS": Earl W. Wallace
TITLE SEQUENCE: The faces of several young children are presented in CLOSEUP, as they walk TOWARD US across a ploughed field. On the SOUND TRACK, the haunting SOUNDS OF A GREGORIAN FUNERAL CHANT. The CAMERA PANS UP to the faces of older brothers and sisters, then to parents and grandparents. These are not familiar faces, but faces from another age, strong and open. All are dressed in the distinctive clothing of the Amish.
ANOTHER LANE: Two Amish buggies reach a crossroads, join a procession of three others. They disappear as the lane wends through a leafless thicket of hickory.
VALLEY: A BIG SHOT. now the procession numbers almost a dozen buggies. it is headed toward a distant farmhouse.
BARNYARD: Where literally dozens of carriages are parked. The horses have been taken from the traces, removed to the shelter of the barn.
RACHEL LAPP: A young woman of perhaps twenty-seven. Her face is pale and In happier circumstances, although there haven't been too many of late in Rachel's life, we would see a robust, sensual woman of full figure, spirit and intelligence. Eight-year-old SAMUEL LAPP flits next to his mother; he would appear stunned, possibly not entirely comprehending events. And the patriarch, ELI LAPP; his stubborn, weathered – yet not unkind – features grief-stricken.
THE MOURNERS: Their faces.
CLOCK: As it begins to CHIME nine a.m.
FAVORING PREACHER: As he removes his hat. As one, the men in the congregation remove their hats also. Then the preacher begins to speak in a formal German dialect:
PREACHER: .a brother has been called home. God has spoken through the death of our neighbor, Jacob Lapp.
THE FAMILY: Where Rachel, Samuel and Eli are SITTING - SOUNDS of emotion and grief not quite suppressed are heard throughout as:
PREACHER: .husband of Rachel, father to Samuel, son of Eli. His chair is empty, his bed is empty, his voice will be heard no more. He was needed in our presence, but God needs such men, too. That one should be taken so suddenly. Treat sorrow. Still, we would not wish him back. Rather we should prepare ourselves to follow him.
RACHEL: TIGHTENING to her as the hymn continues.
RACHEL: Where she sits among women, accepting their condolences.
DANIEL HOCHSTETLER: A brawny-armed, ruggedly-handsome, raffish looking Amishman. There is something atypical about his face a slightly sardonic set of mouth, a bold eye, a prominent set of jaw. Not exactly what old Jacob Ammann had in mind, maybe, but a well set-up man nonetheless, and at ease among men. He's among a group of men including old STOLTZFUS, the local healer, FISHER, BIEILER and Bieiler's stout young son, Tom.
STOLTZFUS: Lapp was a good farmer. None better.
BEILER: But not the man to buy a horse for Hochstetler, wasn't it your father sold him that horse with a ruptured Told him it was a bee sting made him limp that way.
TOM: ( grins ) Told him it was a bee sting made him limp that way.
HOCHSTETLER: ( amused ) That horse had one good ball. That's all it takes.
RACHEL: As Hochstetler looms on the horizon, plants himself like a tree in front of her. At ease as he was with the men, he's a bit awkward at this. All the women, very much aware of Hochstetler's availability, tune in as Rachel looks up.
HOCHSTETLER: I was sorry to hear about Jacob. Let us hope he walks close with God.
RACHEL: I'm sure he does, Daniel.
RACHEL: I. I was at the feed store. And I saw your horse, so.
HOCHSTETLER: I. I was at the feed store. And I saw your horse, so.
HOCHSTETLER: You will come back soon?
SAMUEL: Quickly, Mother Quickly!
ELI: You be careful out among them English.
RACHEL: I need time, Daniel.
SAMUEL: Look, Mama.!
RACHEL: I see, darling.
SAMUEL: Is this where we're going?
RACHEL: Of course not. We're going to Baltimore. It's much nicer in
SAMUEL: He's uncomfortably aware of the shy looks and giggles of a little girl about his own age, standing in line with her parents at the next counter. He edges away from his mother.
ANGLE: As Samuel comes upon a figure garbed in a long black frock coat and flat-brimmed hat. the man's back is turned, could, from appearances, be an Amishman. Samuel stares. A beat, the man turns to face Samuel and we discover that he is a Hasidic Jew.
SAMUEL: As he reacts.
RACHEL: We have a ticket to Baltimore. Where is that train, please?
TICKET SELLER: Delayed three hours. You'll hear an announcement when it's time to board.
PARTNER: The young man's hand comes away from his belly covered with He stares at it, staggers toward the sinks. Finally his bloodied hand reaches to smear at his face in the mirror. Then he collapses to the floor. The black man motions for his partner to watch the door, then quickly reaches up and removes the notebook from behind the dispenser.
SAMUEL: As he stares out the narrow crack. A beat, then he closes the stall door.
BLACK MAN: As he checks the notebook before placing it in his pocket. His partner is covering the door, an automatic in his hand. The black man makes for the exit, then on second thought, glances at the row of stalls.
BLACK MAN: He elbows Samuel's stall. the door won't open.
BLACK MAN: As he gives the door a kick. It holds. He swears under his ANGLE IN SAM'S STALL In desperation, Samuel does the only thing he can think of. he slips under the partition into the neighboring stall the black man just checked out. But he loses his hat in the process. His hand snakes back INTO FRAME to snatch it just as the black man gives the door a ferocious kick that splinters the lock and nearly takes it off its hinges. He's framed there, the big muzzle of the .38 revolver looking down our throats.
ANGLE: As his partner snaps from the doorway:
PARTNER: Will you come on, for Christ's sakes!
BENCH: Little Samuel watching Book, back to crowd of police, as Book questions an old black CUSTODIAN.
BOOK: You found the body?
CUSTODIAN: Uh uh. Not me, daddy, I just reported it. It was the kid.
BOOK: What kid?
CUSTODIAN: How'n hell do I know what kid? The kid in the funny black threads.
SAMUEL: He doesn't raise his eyes. just looks at the legs. And, slowly, the legs begin to bend at the knees. We see Book's belt buckle, then his big pistol in its holster, then his face. He stares at Samuel for a moment, then.
BOOK: Hi, kid.
RACHEL: Immediately alarmed, intervening.
RACHEL: What do you want of my son?
THE SCENE: As Book takes out his wallet, displays his shield.
BOOK: I'm a police officer. I'm going to have to talk to the boy. What's his Samuel. Samuel Lapp. But what happened here is none of his affair. My sister is expecting me. our train is leaving soon.
RACHEL: Samuel. Samuel Lapp. But what happened here is none of his affair. My sister is expecting me. our train is leaving soon.
BOOK: There'll be another train. The man who was killed tonight was a policeman, Sam. It's my job to find out who did it. I want you to tell me everything you saw when you went in there.
SAMUEL: ( stammers ) I saw him.
BOOK: Who'd you see?
BOOK: Who'd you see, Sam? The man on the No. I saw the man who killed him. Anybody know about this?
SAMUEL: No. I saw the man who killed him. Anybody know about this?
BOOK: Anybody know about this?
CARTER: I didn't even know about it.
BOOK: ( back to Sam ) Okay, Sam. Can you tell me what he looked like?
SAMUEL: ( groping, touching his clothes and pointing at Carter ) He was. like him.
BOOK: ( nods ) Black. I understand. What else,Sam?
SAMUEL: Not Zwartich, like him –
BOOK: Try that one again, Sam –
RACHEL: May I talk to you?
ANGLE: As Rachel takes Book aside, and in a low voice:
RACHEL: Zwartich. It's the way we say. Not like him. very big.
DONAHUE: ( to aides ) Close it all down. I want a man on every exit. I want the lab in here ( to Book ) And I want to talk to you, Captain.
ANGLE: As Book steps aside with Donahue. In the b.g. Rachel moves protectively to Samuel's side.
BOOK: All right, talk.
DONAHUE: This is homicide – not Internal Affairs! So why are you behaving like you own this case?
BOOK: We were running Zenovitch. That's all I can tell you. But I want it, I've got a call into Schaeffer.
SAMUEL: ( alarmed ) Momma. are they angry with us.
RACHEL: ( reassuring, but hardly in her own mind ) No. No. It is just the English
DONAHUE: You ought to think about coming back to Homicide, Johnny. Stick with Internal Affairs and you're not gonna have any friends left.
BOOK: ( smiles right back ) I'll buy a dog.
BOOK: Go get a cup of coffee, Stan.
SCHAEFFER: How reliable is this kid?
BOOK: Oh, he's good.
SCHAEFFER: What have you got?
BOOK: What have you got?
SCHAEFFER: What have you got?
BOOK: Zenovitch was about to deliver a list of names tonight – street chemists. the guys processing this P2P into speed.
SCHAEFFER: So one of them got to him.
BOOK: You know who?
SCHAEFFER: You know who?
BOOK: You're still convinced there's a link to the department?
SCHAEFFER: You're still convinced there's a link to the department?
BOOK: If there isn't I've just wasted the last six months.
SCHAEFFER: That's the problem. We need results. The press is driving us crazy over this P2P thing. Calling us the 'speed capitol of the country'. You know the sort of thing. It's getting political. The Commissioner's getting very uneasy.
BOOK: The Amish boy saw him, Paul. I'll make it, but Set Donahue and the Homicide Department off my back or they'll blow the whole thing.
SCHAEFFER: When word gets out that Zenovitch was a cop, all hell will break lose. You've got 24 hours. That's all I can give you. 24 hours on your own. After that the case and the witness go back to the Homicide Department.
SCHAEFFER: ( shakes his head ) Tell you what. why don't you and that blonde – what's-her-name – come over for dinner Sunday. How 'bout What's-her-name moved to Buffalo.
BOOK: What's-her-name moved to Buffalo.
SCHAEFFER: ( sighs ) Well, anyway, don't get crazy. ( dismisses him ) I'll do something for Zenovich's
CARTER: I got there late, John.
BOOK: Let's just find Coalmine. Listen, Zenovich made a mistake. You didn't let anybody down. It happens
CARTER: ( grimly ) It won't happen again.
RACHEL: Where are you taking us?
BOOK: We're looking for a suspect. We've reason to believe he's still in the You have no right to keep us here.
RACHEL: You have no right to keep us here.
BOOK: Yes I do. Your son is a material witness to a homicide.
RACHEL: You don't understand, we have nothing to do with your laws!
BOOK: Doesn't surprise me. I meet a lot of people like that.
RACHEL: It's not a joke.
BOOK: You're right. It's not a joke. Listen, I know a little about the Amish. I know this has to be an ordeal for you; and I'm really sorry you an Samuel got involved. What was that?
BOOK: What was that?
RACHEL: He wants to know who you are. Your name. I told him we don't need to know anything about you.
BOOK: Book. John Book
BOOK: Sammy, where's Coalmine?
SAMMY: What you got there, the Salvation Try "Happy Valley".
BOOK: Try "Happy Valley".
SAMMY: Try "Happy Valley".
BOOK: Put some light on him.
BOOK: ( continuing; to Samuel ) Look at him.
RACHEL: John Book, you listen to me! I will have no further part in this, nor will my son! As God stands between
DOORMAN: No! We do not stay in hotels.
RACHEL: No! We do not stay in hotels.
NIGHT: An attractive woman in her early thirties in robe and slippers stares in disbelief as Rachel and Sam file into the house. This is ELAINE, Book's sister. She stops Book as he tries to follow Rachel inside.
ELAINE: How could you do this to me tonight? I told you I had company
BOOK: Sorry. It's important.
BOOK: Where's Timmy and Buck?
ELAINE: Upstairs, asleep. Where'd you think?
BOOK: You've got a man here and the kids are upstairs?
ELAINE: That's none of your goddamn business! So keep your goddamn holier-than- thou mouth shut! Anyway, they like Fred.
BOOK: Oh sure, Fred.
ELAINE: Who are these orphans, anyway?
BOOK: They're Amish.
ELAINE: Everything okay?
RACHEL: Yes, thank you very much.
ELAINE: ( a beat ) John said you're Amish.
RACHEL: ( blankly )
ELAINE: ( blankly )
SAMUEL: I don't want to stay here.
RACHEL: They are English. They don't I wish dawdie was with us.
SAMUEL: I wish dawdie was with us.
RACHEL: ( swallows ) I know. Sleep now, Liebchen.
ANGLE: But it's not the bathroom; it's Elaine's bedroom. She and FRED are tangled in the sheets, furiously making love. Elaine gasps, Fred manages to grunt.
FRED: Wrong door, kid.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As Samuel quickly shuts the door. A straight-faced beat; then, barely suppressing a giggle, he hurries on.
ELAINE: ( mutters )
RACHEL: Good morning.
ELAINE: ( helplessly ) You didn't have to.
RACHEL: I wanted to. you were kind to take us in last night. Anyway, I needed something to do. I was so angry with your brother. He's so. agaanisish!
ELAINE: Aganishish? Yeah, that sounds like
RACHEL: Just a minute. I'll pour you some You're not carrying a bullwhip. how'd you manage to put my kids to I made it a contest. the one who does best gets his cereal back first. Children like to help. they only need to be kept after a little bit. Oh, is that so? No offense, lady, but I'm not so sure I like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside
ELAINE: You're not carrying a bullwhip. how'd you manage to put my kids to I made it a contest. the one who does best gets his cereal back first. Children like to help. they only need to be kept after a little bit. Oh, is that so? No offense, lady, but I'm not so sure I like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside
RACHEL: ( smiles ) I made it a contest. the one who does best gets his cereal back first. ( and ) Children like to help. they only need to be kept after a little bit. Oh, is that so? ( and ) No offense, lady, but I'm not so sure I like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside
ELAINE: Oh, is that so? No offense, lady, but I'm not so sure I like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside
RACHEL: Please, I didn't mean.
ELAINE: I know exactly what you meant! Listen, maybe I'm not a world-class housefrau, but maybe I don't have time to polish the goddamn china and keep after the It's none of your business, but I don't happen to have a man around here full time. So I sell cosmetics in a goddamn drugstore and sometimes I can even pay the rent on time! So maybe I'm not Mary Poppins, but maybe I don't need to have it jammed down my throat like this.
ELAINE: There is that clean enough for you?
FRED: Jesus, Elaine. Somebody die and leave you a broom?
ELAINE: ( blurts ) Go to hell, Fred!
FRED: What's bugging her?
RACHEL: I brought your coffee.
RACHEL: I'm sorry. I didn't mean it that
ELAINE: It's okay. Look, I shouldn't have blown my top. It's like. somehow. I've let everything get away from me. And you sort of made me face it. What's so funny?
ELAINE: What's so funny?
RACHEL: Fred. The way he looked when you screamed at him.
ELAINE: ( disparing ) God, Fred.
RACHEL: At home you'd never hear a woman scream at a man that way.
ELAINE: No? Why not?
RACHEL: You just wouldn't. It's not the Amish But I think it would have done me good if I could have screamed at your brother last night.
ELAINE: Listen, I don't know what's going on or how you got mixed up with him, but don't you let that self-righteous son of a bitch push you around, okay?
RACHEL: INT. BOOK'S CAR ( MOVING ) – DAY Book glances irritably at Rachel:
BOOK: Now what's the problem?
RACHEL: The problem is I don't happen to think my son should be spending all his time with a man who carried a gun under his coat and goes around whacking people.
BOOK: ( firmly ) Yes. And I also want to leave this Believe me, I'm trying to get this over with as fast as I can. But Samuel will probably have to come back and We do not go into your courts.
RACHEL: ( firmly ) Yes. And I also want to leave this Believe me, I'm trying to get this over with as fast as I can. But Samuel will probably have to come back and We do not go into your courts.
BOOK: Believe me, I'm trying to get this over with as fast as I can. But Samuel will probably have to come back and We do not go into your courts.
RACHEL: We do not go into your courts.
BOOK: People who don't go into our courts when they're told to sometimes go directly into our jail.
BOOK: Look, I'm genuinely sorry.
RACHEL: ( snaps ) No you're not – ( off his look ) You're glad, because now you've got a witness. ( and ) I heard the other police talking last night. ( and ) They don't seem to like you very They kid a lot.
BOOK: They kid a lot.
RACHEL: ( glances at him ) I would not be too sure.
RACHEL: He says you look very tired. I thought the same thing.
RACHEL: But not a good tired.
BOOK: What's a 'good' tired. Tired is tired.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As Book rolls the gumball down the table to Samuel. But just as Samuel is about to cover it with his hand, Rachel reaches over and plucks it off the table. She shakes her head at
BOOK: ( to Rachel ) Just wanted to see if you were on your toes.
RACHEL: Your sister said you don't have a She thinks you should get married and have children of your own. Instead of trying to be a father to hers. Except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility.
BOOK: She thinks you should get married and have children of your own. Instead of trying to be a father to hers. Except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility.
RACHEL: She thinks you should get married and have children of your own. Instead of trying to be a father to hers. Except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility.
BOOK: Oh? Anything else?
RACHEL: Oh yes. She thinks you like policing because you think you're right about everything. And you're the only one who can do anything. And that when you drink a lot of beer you say things like none of the other police would know a crook from a. um. bag of
RACHEL: I think that's what she said. Good appetite.
RACHEL: Good appetite.
JOHN BOOK: Standing in the doorway, holding little Samuel by the hand.
BOOK: Afternoon, gentlemen. I'd like you to meet Samuel Lapp. We'd like a little help.
KAMAN: There's a Sgt. Carter on the phone for you.
KAMAN: And, Captain, don't want to rush you, but I'm gonna need these files back in a half hour. We got a lot of work to do round here.
RACHEL: Why don't you arrest that man? Are you protecting him because policeman?
BOOK: ( snaps ) Listen, I'm the cop that polices the police. I'm not in the business of protecting crooked cops. ( eases up ) I'll make an arrest when I know everybody involved.
RACHEL: But why would they murder.
BOOK: Because – somehow – they knew I was getting close. Look, it's narcotics. They make dope out of chemicals. they sell it on the street for millions of dollars. They'll do anything. And they can get away with it because they're cops.
RACHEL: ( beat, then ) I'm afraid. I'm afraid for Samuel. I want to go home.
BOOK: You'll be safe. You don't have to
BOOK: Look, they're thinking as long as they keep the killer out of Samuel's way, we can't make an I.D. There's no way they can know Samuel saw that photograph, so he's safe.
BOOK: I mean it. You will be safe.
RACHEL: Oh yes! Of Course. Why shouldn't we feel safe in a city where the police are so busy killing each other!
BOOK: It was McElroy, Paul.
BOOK: Last guy I would have figured. But he's part of it.
SCHAEFFER: I hope you don't have any doubts about that.
BOOK: If I did, I'd have kept my mouth It fits, Paul. Fifty-five gallons of P2P confiscated four years ago. Guess who was in on the collar? Mac. He salts it away somewhere. he knows the stuff is potent, but the street chemists haven't figured out how to process it. But they do now. And now the stuff is worth five-grand a pint and there are a lot of pints in a fifty-five gallon drum.
SCHAEFFER: ( beat ) Who else knows?
BOOK: Just us.
SCHAEFFER: ( shakes his head ) Okay, what are you going to need to clean it up
BOOK: More people. Gotta pick up where Zenovich left off. People from outside the department.
SCHAEFFER: ( nods ) Maybe the Bureau. Or those bastards at Treasury. I'll take care of it. ( then ) I hate this shit, Johnny. You cut their balls off for me. I'm counting on you.
SCHAEFFER: What's your first move?
BOOK: ( expels a breath ) A hot shower. I haven't changed clothes in two days.
MCELROY: Still smiling, he brings up his right hand out of a shopping bag ( which he appeared to be carrying ) – letting the shopping bag fall away as he does so – revealing a five-inch barrel Smith and Wesson .357 blue finish revolver with a silencer. Without hesitating, coming right on, still smiling, he FIRES Already starting to leap away to one side, he is hit, driven into a half-turn. He clutches at the wound, as:
BOOK: Already starting to leap away to one side, he is hit, driven into a half-turn. He clutches at the wound, as:
MCELROY: Coming right on, FIRING again. the pistol's report a WHOOSHING, like the opening of a bottle of cheap champagne. And McElroy still smiling as:
BOOK: Hit. a grazing near-miss this time, but enough to send Book down hard and grasping.
MCELROY: Lowering the pistol alongside his leg, as two MEN, barely taking notice of anything, cross with their backs to Book toward McElroy. He smiles at them.
BOOK: Down, muttering CURSES.
THE SCENE: As McElroy walks past Book, drops the pistol to the pavement, keeps on going. and is gone.
BOOK: GROANING in pain, beginning to try to crawl crab-like. And we HEAR – from the agonized recesses of Book's Dream.
ANGLE: A fat, middle-aged MAN has approached to within some feet of Book, looks on edgily:
MAN: Hey, buddy, what's the score? Little too much to drink?
BOOK'S WOUND: As Book removes his hand we can see one of the bullets struck him low in the side, just below the ribcage. the other just above it ( but this one inflicting only minor damage ).
THE SCENE: As the man stares:
MAN: Goddamn, buddy. You better get to a Here; I'll give you a hand.
BOOK: No! No hospital!
WIFE: Let him alone, Henry! If he wants to die in the street, that's his
MAN: Shut up, Romona! Will ya look at that blood?
MAN: Come on, buddy. you're gonna bleed to death!
MAN: ( quavering ) I told you, Henry!
WIFE: ( quavering ) I told you, Henry!
CARTER: INTERCUT BOOK He's at an n.d. pay phone.
INTERCUT BOOK: He's at an n.d. pay phone.
BOOK: Listen carefully, I wrote the Amish woman's name and address on my desk calendar, I want you to lose it for me, Now. Tonight.
CARTER: What the hell are you talking about? What's happening.
BOOK: Nothing. I'm not going to be around for a while. I'll call you when I Johnny, what the fuck?
CARTER: ( alarmed ) Johnny, what the fuck?
BOOK: ( hard ) Listen to me – Schaeffer's part of it. Maybe at the top of it.
BOOK: Yeah. I can put it all together when I get back, 'Til then, you know nothing, understand? Business as I hear you.
CARTER: ( beat ) I hear you.
BOOK: ( nods ) Good. Take care of that woman's name for me. And watch your ass.
ELAINE: It's John. He says you have to leave now. He says it's urgent.
ELAINE: John, I don't understand any of this.
ELAINE: John, why?.
BOOK: ( shouts ) Just do it!
RACHEL: Where are you taking us now?
BOOK: You couldn't wait until morning?
RACHEL: You couldn't wait until morning?
RACHEL: ( insistent ) What happened?
RACHEL: You said we would be safe in I was wrong.
BOOK: I was wrong.
RACHEL: Kinner un Narre. ["Kinner un Narre saage die Waahret" – "Children and fools say the truth" – Amish expressions]
NIGHT: ANGLE PAST Book's desk calendar. Carter enters in the b.g., crosses quickly to the desk. He snaps on a light, thumbs a page of the calendar. Frowns.
INSERT: Rachel's name and address scribbled on a page of the calendar.
ANGLE: A couple of plainclothesmen have paused outside the door to give him a look. Meets their eyes. They move on. Carter shakes it off, goes. And.
RACHEL: Stay for awhile. Rest. I'll make coffee and breakfast.
BOOK: I can't.
RACHEL: What about Samuel? Will you come back to take him to trial?
BOOK: ( grimly ) There isn't going to be one.
ANGLE: As Eli crosses to Rachel, his arm around Samuel.
ELI: Who was that man?
RACHEL: His name is John Book.
SAMUEL: Momma – look.
RACHEL: But John. why didn't you go to a No, no doctor.
BOOK: No, no doctor.
RACHEL: ( bewildered ) But why?
BOOK: Gunshot. they'll file reports. they'll find me.
RACHEL: But –
BOOK: And when they find me, they'll find your boy!
ANOTHER ANGLE: As Eli reins up in the springwagon. He climbs down, crosses to glance into the car.
ELI: Is the English dead?
RACHEL: Looks dead.
ELI: Looks dead.
ELI: Stoltzfus is coming.
ELI: That has no place in this house.
RACHEL: I know.
RACHEL: It will go when he goes.
RACHEL: Thank you for coming, Stoltzfus.
STOLTZFUS: That's the English is it?
WIDER: As Stoltzfus, in his shirt sleeves and concentrating mightily, moistens his fingertips with saliva, continues the Finally he steps back.
STOLTZFUS: This man should be treated in town. The bullet entered there. and came out there. But there is the danger of infection, and he has lost a great deal of blood.
RACHEL: Go help Levi with the car, Samuel. No, he must stay here.
RACHEL: No, he must stay here.
ELI: Didn't you hear Stoltzfus? What if he dies? Then the sheriff will come. They'll say we broke their laws –
RACHEL: We'll pray that he doesn't die! But if he does, then we'll find a way so no one knows!
ELI: Rachel, this is a man's life, we hold it in our hands.
RACHEL: I know God help me, I know that, But I tell you that if he's found here, the people who did this to him will come for Samuel.
RACHEL: What else can we do?
RACHEL: Where she's waiting with the big barn doors thrown open. As the mules tow the car in, she closes the doors.
STOLTZFUS: Make a poultice. three parts milk, two parts linseed oil. for the
RACHEL: Thank you.
STOLTZFUS: Lapp, I'll have to speak with the diener on this matter.
ELI: ( nods ) As you see fit, Stoltzfus.
ANGLE: As Book rouses to semi-consciousness, in his delirium he recoils with alarm.
RACHEL: It's all right! You have got to lie
RACHEL: ( soothingly ) Yes, much better.
ANGLE: As Book lapses back into sleep. Rachel hasn't removed her hand from his chest. Abruptly she does so. She finds herself wondering about this man lying before her, so suddenly a part of her life. She notices details; bruises, scars, the knuckles are hard, grazed, a tattoo on one shoulder. While lost in this reverie, the delirious Philadelphia policeman begins to mutter. Incoherently at first, then the words take shape – swear words; curses; fuck this and that; shit; etc. Rachel rises abruptly, her cheeks coloring, as the barrage of language pours from his mouth. She beats a hasty retreat closing the door swiftly behind INT. SCHAEFFER'S OFFICE – DAY He's on the phone:
SCHAEFFER: Looks like we're going to need some help from you folks down there.
UNDERSHERIFF: .want to help any way we can, Chief, but you got to understand we've got upwards of seven thousand Amish over
INTERCUT SCHAEFFER: Who is trying to control his impatience:
SCHAEFFER: I've got the woman's name, Sheriff. Lapp. Rachel Lapp. That should simplify your work. How about an address?
UNDERSHERIFF: How about an address?
SCHAEFFER: Ah. no.
UNDERSHERIFF: ( frowns ) Maybe a road or route number?
SCHAEFFER: The Undersheriff is not impressed.
UNDERSHERIFF: Problem is, Chief, 'bout every third Amishman around here is named Lapp. That or Yoder. Or Hochstetler. Chief, if the Amish have taken your man in, I wouldn't want to hang from a rope until you find him.
ANGLE: Schaeffer is tight-lipped with contained fury:
SCHAEFFER: Thank you, Sheriff. It's been an
ANOTHER ANGLE: Standing in his doorway are the two plainclothesmen who spotted Carter in Book's office in the earlier scene. And.
SAMUEL: Where he's leading a team of horses to the barn. In the b.g. three buggies are parked in the barnyard, traces empty. ANGLE IN SICKROOM Where Book lies in the bed. His fever seems to have subsided. He's coming awake, tries to focus on the room.
ANGLE: Another moment of silence, then Book opens his eyes. Tschantz rumbles in German.
TSCHANTZ: Well, Stoltzfus, another Lazarus to your credit.
STOLTZFUS: He was touched by God's hand.
RACHEL: Book stares at her, then at the old bearded gentlemen.
BOOK: ( closing his eyes ) Who are they?
RACHEL: The leadership of our district. the diener. Bishop Tschantz is the one with no hair on top. They decided to come and see you for themselves. Except Stoltzfus, of course. He came the first day. I think he saved your Can I have something to drink?
BOOK: Can I have something to drink?
BOOK: Does anybody know I'm here?
RACHEL: Only the elders.
BOOK: How long?
RACHEL: How long have I been here?
BOOK: How long have I been here?
RACHEL: Two days.
BOOK: ( a beat ) Listen, thank you. Thanks for everything. But I've got to go.
RACHEL: ( frowns ) But you can't. See. Anyway, you don't have any clothes on. And besides that, Bishop Tschantz wants to talk to you when you feel better.
RACHEL: See. Anyway, you don't have any clothes on. And besides that, Bishop Tschantz wants to talk to you when you feel better.
STOLTZFUS: Rest, Mr. Book. That's the ticket. And drink my of my tea.
BOOK: Tell him his tea stinks.
RACHEL: ( smiles ) You tell him. When you're able.
RACHEL: ( from the door ) We're all very happy that you're going to live, John Book. We didn't quite know what we were going to do with you if you died.
HERSHBERGER: .but a gunshot wound. Very serious.
TSCHANTZ: It is not the first time we have done this. In the Englischer war of the revolution, old Elmer Miller's grandfather took in gunshot English Saved them, too.
ERB: Still, he should be among his own
RACHEL: He'll leave as soon as he is able. He already wants to go.
HERSHBERGER: How long will that be, Stoltzfus?
STOLTZFUS: ( shrugs ) A month. Maybe less. With God's healing love.
ELAINE: ( half fearfully ) Did you find him?
SCHAEFFER: Not yet.
ELAINE: Then go away, you bastard. Elaine, I've come to apologize for Lt. McElroy. He overstated the department's position.
SCHAEFFER: Elaine, I've come to apologize for Lt. McElroy. He overstated the department's position.
ELAINE: ( bitterly ) He accused John of taking kickbacks. And you know – anybody who knows John – knows that's a goddamn lie!
SCHAEFFER: ( smoothly ) Of course, Elaine. But as long as there's any question, better Johnny should come back and clear his name.
ELAINE: ( cuts in ) Better you should get off my front porch before I get my mace!
SCHAEFFER: Elaine, I don't want to have to take you in for questioning. You've got his car, you were the last to see him –
ELAINE: ( clipped ) I don't know where he is.
SCHAEFFER: But. if you had to guess?
MCELROY: She say where he is?
SCHAEFFER: I don't think she knows.
SCHAEFFER: What about Carter?
MCELROY: Tight. But I'm working on him.
SCHAEFFER: Lean on him.
ANGLE: Book's big .38 revolver lies holstered atop his folded Fascinated, Samuel picks it up, admiring the heavy burled pistol grips. Unable to resist, he starts to remove the weapon from the holster, then pauses to steal a look. OFF SCREEN.
BOOK: His eyes are open and watching Samuel icily, which gives the boy something of a jolt.
BOOK: Give me that.
BOOK: Come here.
BOOK: You ever handle a pistol like this, No pistol. Ever.
SAMUEL: ( swallows ) No pistol. Ever.
BOOK: Tell you what – I'm going to let you handle this one. But only if you promise not to say anything to your momma. I've got a feeling she wouldn't Okay, Mr. Book.
SAMUEL: ( grins ) Okay, Mr. Book.
BOOK: Call me John.
BOOK: You don't want to point that at people you just started calling by their first name.
RACHEL: ( snaps ) Wait for me downstairs.
RACHEL: Wait for me downstairs.
RACHEL: John Book, I would appreciate it if, during the time you are with us, you would have as little to do with Samuel as possible.
BOOK: Nobody meant any harm. The boy was curious. I unloaded the gun -
RACHEL: It's not the gun. Don't you understand. It's you. What you stand for. That is not for Samuel.
RACHEL: Please, it has nothing to do with you personally.
BOOK: Put it up someplace Samuel can't get
BOOK: Rachel glances back at him, smiles and nods. And.
ELI: The gun – that gun of the hand – is for the taking of human life. Would you kill another man? Eh?
ELI: What you take into your hands, you take into your heart.
SAMUEL: I would only kill a bad man.
ELI: Only a bad man. I see. And you know these bad men on sight? You are able to look into their hearts and see this badness?
SAMUEL: I can see what they do.
SAMUEL: I have seen it.
ELI: And having seen, you would become one of them? Don't you see.? The hand leads the arm leads the shoulder leads the head. leads the heart. The one goes into the other into the other into the other. And you have changed, and gone amongst them.
ELI: "Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord!"
ELI: ( indicating pistol; continuing from Corinthians 6:17 ) "And touch not the unclean thing!"
RACHEL: Enjoying your reading?
BOOK: Very interesting. I'm learning a lot about manure. What's that?
RACHEL: Your shirt and jacket are still stained with blood. I have them soaking.You can wear these.
BOOK: Your husband's?
RACHEL: Yes. It's good that someone can have the use of them. Besides, in your clothes you'd stand out to strangers.
RACHEL: I should tell you these do not have See? Hooks and eyes.
BOOK: Something wrong with buttons?
RACHEL: Buttons are Hochmut.
BOOK: Vain. Proud. Such a person is Hochmutsnarr. He is not plain.
RACHEL: Vain. Proud. Such a person is Hochmutsnarr. He is not plain.
BOOK: ( nodding ) Anything against zippers?
RACHEL: ( almost blushing ) You make fun of me. Like the tourists. Driving by all the time. Some even come into the yard. Very rude. They seem to think we are quaint.
BOOK: Quaint? Can't imagine why.
BOOK: Where's the nearest telephone?
RACHEL: Telephone? The Gunthers across the valley. They're Mennonite. They have cars and refrigerators and telephones in the houses even.
BOOK: No. I'd want a public phone.
RACHEL: Well. the store at Saltzburg. But you won't be going to Saltzburg for a while.
BOOK: I'm going this morning.
RACHEL: But Stoltzfus said.
BOOK: ( cutting in ) I know what he said.
RACHEL: You can go with Eli. He's taking Samuel to school. But you'll have to
BOOK: She turns to look at him. It's the first time he's used her She smiles and leaves.
BOOK: She smiles and leaves.
ELI: Hurry up now, John Book!
RACHEL: You'd better go.
BOOK: My. eh. gun?
BOOK: The. bullets?
RACHEL: Oh. The bullets. Not much good without them.
BOOK: ( attempting a joke ) Not much good without them.
CARTER: A silence.
BOOK: It's me.
CARTER: Johnny! Where the hell have you been?
BOOK: Never mind. I'm coming in to take care of business. How hot am I?
CARTER: ( low, urgent ) Too hot. Don't do it. Don't come in.
BOOK: I'm coming.
CARTER: Listen, Johnny, don't do anything stupid. You couldn't get within a mile of Schaeffer right now. So stay put. Stay in touch – I'll let you know when maybe it makes sense.
CARTER: ( edgily ) You hear me?
BOOK: ( finally ) I hear you. I'll stay in touch.
CARTER: That's more like it. Where are you at, anyway?
BOOK: Where I'm at is maybe 1890.
CARTER: ( uncomprehending ) Say again?
BOOK: Make that 1790.
ELI: If you are well enough to do that thing, you can do work for me.
BOOK: Sure, I'm sorry. Hope you don't mind me plugging in to your battery. Mine's dead. How can I help? What can I Maybe milking.
ELI: Maybe milking.
BOOK: ( eyes Eli ) Cows. You know, cows?
ELI: Cows. You know, cows?
BOOK: I've seen pictures.
ELI: Good, you start tomorrow.
ELI: ( briskly ) Veck oufl. Time for milking.
INSERT WATCHFACE: It reads 4:30 a.m.
SAMUEL: Where he's pitching hay into the cow's feed-troughs.
BOOK, ELI: Where the old man is showing Book how to milk a cow by hand. We see Rachel watching from the milkhouse door ( steam from scalding milk cans rising behind her ).
ELI: Good, firm twist and pull, eh? Right. Now you try it.
ELI: Didn't you hear me, Book? Pull! You never had your hands on a teat before?
BOOK: ( grimly ) Not one this big.
BOOK, ELI: As Samuel brings Luke out. Eli is now harnessing the other mule of the team to a large manure-spreader. But as Luke nears Book, his eyes widen and he shies, almost hauling Samuel off his feet.
BOOK: ( alarmed ) Careful, son –
ANGLE: Samuel gives the shaken Book a look:
SAMUEL: That's Luke. He doesn't like You don't say. Have to teach you mules, too, I guess.
BOOK: ( still shaken ) You don't say. Have to teach you mules, too, I guess.
ELI: Have to teach you mules, too, I guess.
HOCHSTETLER: Good morning. Book, is it? You are the Yankee they talk about?
BOOK: I thought I was the English.
HOCHSTETLER: English, Yankee. It's the same. My name is Daniel. Daniel Hochstetler. You look plain, Book. Very plain.
HOCHSTETLER: I came to see Rachel Lapp.
BOOK: Try the house.
HOCHSTETLER: ( genially ) You bet. you take care of yourself.
ANGLE: As Rachel emerges from the house to greet him. She also catches sight of Book and she pauses, a shadow of confusion crossing her expression for an instant. And Hochstetler doesn't miss it either. Then she gives her suitor a genuine smile of welcome.
HOG PENS: Book, having gathered up the pieces of the bird house, is headed toward the outbuildings, passing by hog pens. He glances toward the house:
BOOK: INT. CARPENTRY SHOP, LAPP FARM – DAY Book works on repairing the broken birdhouse when Rachel He uses a drawknife on a piece of 2x4, with some obvious
BOOK: He uses a drawknife on a piece of 2x4, with some obvious
RACHEL: Eli is a fine carpenter. Best in the district. He and his father built the big house themselves forty years What happened to Hochstetler?
BOOK: ( and ) What happened to Hochstetler?
RACHEL: We had some lemonade and he left.
BOOK: A real fireball. You know carpentry?
RACHEL: You know carpentry?
BOOK: I did some carpentry summers when I was going to school.
RACHEL: What else can you do?
BOOK: ( really annoyed ) I can whack people. I'm hell at Whacking is not of much use on a Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate I'm sorry. I'm sure it is. Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you.
RACHEL: Whacking is not of much use on a Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate I'm sorry. I'm sure it is. Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you.
BOOK: Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate I'm sorry. I'm sure it is. Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you.
RACHEL: I'm sorry. I'm sure it is. Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you.
RACHEL: Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you.
ELI: Eat up, Book. What's the matter with your appetite?
BOOK: Guess I'm not used to so much.
ELI: ( snorts ) Not used to hard work. That's what makes an appetite.
RACHEL: Eli, John is a carpenter. As well as being a fine policeman.
ELI: Eh? Well then, maybe he can go to Zook's barn-raising, eh? See how good a carpenter.
BOOK: But. You may not be well enough.
RACHEL: But. You may not be well enough.
BOOK: I'll drink some more of Stoltzfus'
BOOK: As she sets her lamp down near the one he's using.
RACHEL: ( beat ) When will you be going?
BOOK: Not long. A few days.
BOOK: You like it. Don't you?
RACHEL: No. You just stop –
BOOK: ( mock alarm ) Next thing you know you'll be off drinking beer and racing motorcycles.
ELI: THE SCENE As Book and Rachel's dancing comes to a sudden halt. Both turn, look at Eli. Rachel regards him level-eyed, without discernible alarm. Book, looking a bit sheepish, goes over, turns off the radio, as:
THE SCENE: As Book and Rachel's dancing comes to a sudden halt. Both turn, look at Eli. Rachel regards him level-eyed, without discernible alarm. Book, looking a bit sheepish, goes over, turns off the radio, as:
ELI: ( in the dialect ) What is this? This Myusick?
BOOK: It's not her fault. I –
ELI: ( in the dialect ) How can this be? How can you do such a thing? Is this plain? Is this the I have done nothing against the ( in the dialect ) Eh? Nothing? Rachel, you bring this man to our house. With his gun of the hand. You bring fear to this house. Fear of English with guns coming after. You bring blood and whispers of more blood. Now English music. and you are dancing to English music! And you call this I have committed no sin.
RACHEL: I have done nothing against the Eh? Nothing? Rachel, you bring this man to our house. With his gun of the hand. You bring fear to this house. Fear of English with guns coming after. You bring blood and whispers of more blood. Now English music. and you are dancing to English music! And you call this I have committed no sin.
ELI: ( in the dialect ) Eh? Nothing? Rachel, you bring this man to our house. With his gun of the hand. You bring fear to this house. Fear of English with guns coming after. You bring blood and whispers of more blood. Now English music. and you are dancing to English music! And you call this I have committed no sin.
RACHEL: I have committed no sin.
ELI: ( in English ) No sin? Maybe. Not yet. But, Rachel, it does not look. ( tone softening. in the dialect ) Don't you know there has been talk? Talk about you, not him. Talk about going to the Bishop. About having you. shunned!
RACHEL: That is idle talk.
ELI: ( in English, pleading ) Do not make light of it, Rachel. They can do it. quick! Like that! And then. then I can not sit at table with you. I can not take a thing from your hand. I. I can not go with you to meeting! ( the old man almost breaks down as, in the dialect ) Rachel, good Rachel, you must not go too far! Dear child!
RACHEL: I am not a child.
ELI: ( suddenly stern again ) You are acting like one!
RACHEL: I will be the judge of that.
ELI: ( fierce as a prophet ) No! They will be the judge of that! And so will I. if you shame me!
RACHEL: ( blinking a tear now, but meeting his gaze ) You shame yourself.
SCHAEFFER: You know where he is.
CARTER: You'd lie to protect him.
SCHAEFFER: You'd lie to protect him.
CARTER: ( cool )
SCHAEFFER: You admit you're lying?
CARTER: ( shakes head ) I admit I don't know where he is.
SCHAEFFER: You're the first one he'll contact.
CARTER: ( sighing ) He's got my number.
SCHAEFFER: It's funny. I know he's hiding somewhere with the Amish, I know it. Can you imagine John Book at a prayer meeting? Our John Book?
SCHAEFFER: Either you're a member of the club or you aren't, Elton. Tell me what you know.
CARTER: What I know, Paul, is. He's going to take you out.
BOOK: All right, you nasty son of a bitch, we're going to be friends whether you like it or not.
ANGLE: As Luke eyes him balefully, Book reaches into his pocket, brings out some lumps of sugar.
BOOK: See. Sugar. You like sugar, don't you for Christ's sake?
ANOTHER ANGLE: Rachel has entered the barn, is watching Book with a puzzled Book turns, grins with some pride of accomplishment!
RACHEL: ( surprised )
BOOK: Won him over just like that.
RACHEL: I see. But I hope you have a lot of sugar. Eli is ready to go to Zook's.
BOOK: And we.
LAPP BUGGY: As Eli, Book, Rachel and Samuel step down, Book eyes the construction site.
ELI: Wait here 'til I find a gang you can work with.
HOCHSTETLER: Book! Good to see you!
HOCHSTETLER: Eli says you're a carpenter, Book.
BOOK: It's been a while.
HOCHSTETLER: No matter. Come with me. We can always use a good carpenter.
RACHEL: Good luck.
HOCHSTETLER: Your hole is healed, then?
BOOK: ( gives him a look ) Pretty much.
HOCHSTETLER: Good. Then you can go home.
CUTS: As the morning progresses: .Book and Hochstetler sawing and augering out heavy timbers on big sawhorses. There's an unmistakable atmosphere of competition between the two men, which doesn't go entirely unnoticed by the half-dozen or so other young men on the .or, indeed, by Rachel; in fact, she seems – without leaning on it too heavily – to be measuring the two men as the morning progresses, and she occasionally passes within proximity of .Eli and a couple of other elders prowling the job with sheaves of hand-drawn sketches under their arms, supervising the construction. All around them the structure is rising with remarkable rapidity. .Rachel, where she's helping the women set out the huge noon meal. Other women are sitting on benches in the b.g., knitting or doing quiltwork. .Samuel, where he's banging away with a hammer, with a group of boys his own age. Elsewhere we see little girls "botching" ( a hand-clapping game played to German rhymes ). .The very elderly; sitting on the grass or in wheelchairs in the sunlight, looking on – the old men kibitzing in German, the women gossiping. BIG SHOT Of the barn-raising with the noon sun high overhead. at least a hundred and fifty men are swarming over and about the barn framework. .some aid the rafters, some hauling lumber to the job, others sawing, hammering, drilling, joining, planing and what-all. so many that the barn seems almost to be rearing up before our very eyes. And there isn't a power tool in WOMEN'S AREA As Rachel crosses near the benches. we can see other women eyeing her, whispering among themselves, some tittering. Rachel ignores them. She joins the stoutly amiable Mrs. Yoder from the funeral sequence earlier. The older woman is emptying a big pan of fried chicken into serving platters. She smiles, obviously liking Rachel.
BIG SHOT: Of the barn-raising with the noon sun high overhead. at least a hundred and fifty men are swarming over and about the barn framework. .some aid the rafters, some hauling lumber to the job, others sawing, hammering, drilling, joining, planing and what-all. so many that the barn seems almost to be rearing up before our very eyes. And there isn't a power tool in WOMEN'S AREA As Rachel crosses near the benches. we can see other women eyeing her, whispering among themselves, some tittering. Rachel ignores them. She joins the stoutly amiable Mrs. Yoder from the funeral sequence earlier. The older woman is emptying a big pan of fried chicken into serving platters. She smiles, obviously liking Rachel.
WOMEN'S AREA: As Rachel crosses near the benches. we can see other women eyeing her, whispering among themselves, some tittering. Rachel ignores them. She joins the stoutly amiable Mrs. Yoder from the funeral sequence earlier. The older woman is emptying a big pan of fried chicken into serving platters. She smiles, obviously liking Rachel.
MRS. YODER: Everyone has an idea about you and the English.
RACHEL: All of them charitable, I'm sure.
MRS. YODER: Hardly any of them.
HOCHSTETLER: Nail it!
BOOK: Yes, sir.
BIG SHOT: The barn is done, the workmen climbing down from the rafters. It's late afternoon.
HOCHSTETLER: We admire our work!
CONGREGATION: PANNING the faces as they listen to the heavy German words rolling out over the still evening air. Book stands a little to one side of the Amish. The prayers he cannot share with them. Rachel is aware of this, feels something of his emotion. She looks toward him, then she too closes her eyes and drifts away from him, into the soothing EXT. LAPP FARM – NIGHT Book stands outside, listening to the NIGHT SOUNDS. He turns, walks up toward the porch.
BOOK: Hey, Sam.
SAMUEL: .I want to say a thing.
BOOK: ( sitting up ) What's that, Sam?
BOOK: Same to you, Sam.
BOOK: No answer. Book steps inside, pulls the door shut behind him, moves down-the corridor toward the kitchen.
BOOK: As he stands in the doorway, willing himself to leave, unable to make it happen. And suddenly the moment has passed. Rachel lowers her eyes, picks up the camisole, covers herself with it without putting it on, looks away.
BOOK: TIGHTENING to him, and.
BOOK: Last night.
BOOK: If. we'd made love, then, I couldn't
BOOK: Maybe I ought to learn to drive this
BOOK: ( beat ) Pick myself up another useful skill.
RACHEL: Samuel, who is that?
SAMUEL: It looks like Hochstetler's mare.
BOOK: ( teasing her ) Uh oh, they're leaving us behind.
RACE MONTAGE: Hochstetler has a couple of older folk on board, together with his young sister – at first they're not aware of the race, until Daniel can contain his excitement no longer and gives his horse a couple of whoops. The buggies are neck and neck, and the older people are not protesting loudly. It's all Book can do to refrain from grabbing the reins off Rachel, but she's something of a horsewoman and finally she gains the edge and pulls ahead of Hochstetler, to the cheers of Samuel and Book.
TOURIST LADY: Could I. ah, you know?
BOOK: ( smiling ) Lady, if you take my picture, I'll rip your brassiere off and strangle you with it.
BOOK: Lieutenant Elton Carter, please.
VOICE: Are you a member of the family?
BOOK: What? I'm a friend of his.
VOICE: I'm sorry. Last night Sergeant Carter was killed in the line of duty.
MRS. SCHAEFFER: How are you, John?
MRS. SCHAEFFER: ( covering mouthpiece ) John Book!
SCHAEFFER: I'll take it in the study.
SCHAEFFER: You can hang up, dear.
BOOK: You made a mistake, Paul. You shouldn't have taken Elton out.
SCHAEFFER: ( beat ) How bad did Mac get you? We figured pretty bad.
BOOK: I'm fine. I'm going to live a long time. That's what I called to tell Johnny –
SCHAEFFER: ( quickly ) Johnny –
BOOK: You might want to pass it along to Listen to me, Johnny. Come in! You're out there all alone. We're getting close. real close. Maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in –
SCHAEFFER: ( urgently ) Listen to me, Johnny. Come in! You're out there all alone. We're getting close. real close. Maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in –
BOOK: I've already got something worked Be seeing you.
RACHEL: Do nothing. This happens from time to time.
RACHEL: It's not our way, John. We'll have nothing to do with violence! John!
YOUTH: Here comes another one!
BOOK: ( quietly ) You're making a mistake.
HOCHSTETLER: Everything is all right, John.
BOOK: ( to the youth ) Pick up the hat.
LOCAL MAN: Never seen anything like that in all my years.
RACHEL: ( covering ) He's from. Ohio. My cousin.
LOCAL MAN: We'll, them Ohio Amish sure must be Our Lancaster brethren, they just don't have that kind of fight in John, lost control of himself. He. will be repentant.
RACHEL: John, lost control of himself. He. will be repentant.
LOCAL MAN: ( to Rachel ) You're Rachel Lapp, aren't you?
RACHEL: Yes. Samuel! We're going.
SECOND MAN: Kid's nose is broken!
LOCAL MAN: We'll take him up the hospital. Good- day to you, Mrs. Lapp. This ain't good for the tourist trade, you know! You tell that to your Ohio
RACHEL: You should not bother with that If you're leaving tomorrow.
BOOK: I'm leaving tonight. I'm going to need my clothes. And my
RACHEL: There was a time when I thought you might have stayed.
BOOK: ( hesitating. then ) There was.
RACHEL: There was a time when I would have welcomed it.
BOOK: ( after a beat ) I know.
RACHEL: ( asking ) I was being foolish?
BOOK: ( and ) I was being unrealistic. Even thinking about living this life.
RACHEL: You're so sure of that?
BOOK: Aren't you? After today?
RACHEL: ( almost conceding it, but. her voice rising a bit, annoyed ) I'm not so sure of anything as you are, John Book. You could live this life if you wanted to bad enough. ( a beat ) Just as I could live yours!
BOOK: ( almost groaning ) Oh, come on, Rachel. No way.
RACHEL: There is always a way! But you are such a. a Glotzkopp you cannot see! You'd rather go back to that city! To nothing! No woman! No children! No land!
BOOK: ( now getting annoyed ) Land! Are you crazy? I'm no Amishman and I'm no farmer! I'm a cop. That's what I know and that's what I do!
RACHEL: What you do is take vengeance! Which is a sin against heaven!
BOOK: That's your way, not mine.
RACHEL: That's God's way!
BOOK: Well in the City of Philadelphia, God needs a little help!
RACHEL: I could never love a man who was so. little.
RACHEL: The other night. when you saw me after my bath. I. I tried to look as I thought you would want a woman to look. I am sorry. that I did not.
BOOK: Looking after her. A face full of loss.
RACHEL: Eli, would you see Samuel to bed?
SHERIFF: There. White Oak Road a couple of miles before it ties into two-twenty- two. Got it?
SCHAEFFER: Got it. We owe you one, Sheriff.
SHERIFF: My man Holmes here put it together. Fine officer, Chief. He spoke to the doctor at the hospital.
SCHAEFFER: Undersheriff Holmes and I have talked on the phone. Good work.
UNDERSHERIFF: Sure you don't want us to post some backup units?
SCHAEFFER: If we need any help, we'll give you a shout. I'd like to slip in there quiet, then get out before we attract any attention.
HOLMES: Maybe I'll take a drive over that Let 'em be. It's their dirty laundry.
SHERIFF: Let 'em be. It's their dirty laundry.
ANGLE: GOING WITH the trio of gunmen. McElroy, breath smoking in the chill, eyes the terrain:
MCELROY: Weird, man. No fuckin' electricity. What do you figure they plug all their shit into?
SCHAEFFER: They don't have any shit.
SCHAEFFER: ( to Fergie ) Outside – ( to Mac ) Check out the rest of the house.
SCHAEFFER: We're police officers. We're looking for a fugitive, John Book. He's living I have nothing to say to you. Get out of my house!
ELI: I have nothing to say to you. Get out of my house!
SCHAEFFER: You speak English. Good. Now listen
RACHEL: ( recovering ) No, you listen. Get out!
SCHAEFFER: Lady, I'm here to help you. This man is very dangerous. An armed criminal. He's got a gun, hasn't he?
RACHEL: You have no right here!
MCELROY: He's not in this building.
SCHAEFFER: ( to Eli ) All right, where is he?
ELI: John Book!
SCHAEFFER: He'll live.
RACHEL: You might have killed him!
SCHAEFFER: ( to McElroy ) Find Fergie, check the barns. I'll watch these two.
SAMUEL: Is it them?
BOOK: ( turning, mind racing ) It's them, Sam. ( he bends to the boy, takes him by the shoulders ) Now, Sam, listen to me and listen to me carefully. Listen to me as you never listened before.
SAMUEL: ( interrupting ) Are they going to kill you?
BOOK: Listen to me, Sam! I want you to go across the new corn to Stoltzfus'. Run as fast as you can. And stay What are you going to do?
SAMUEL: What are you going to do?
BOOK: I'll be all right. You just do as I
SAMUEL: Don't let them hurt you.
BOOK: ( rising, pushing Samuel toward door ) I won't. Now run. ( as Sam looks back ) Fast as you can!
BOOK: As he listens, tenses, hearing Fergie's feet in the fresh Book eases back alongside Luke, waits.
FERGIE: Bowled backwards by the rearing animal as the gate flies open, involuntarily FIRING, suddenly finding himself under the lethal hooves of a twelve-hundred pound beast. Staggering backwards, he SCREAMS, FIRES again, the load striking the mule in its heaving chest as a flailing hoof smashes into Fergie's head and the other hoof snaps his shotgun in half like a matchstick.
BOOK: As he slips out of the stall, ducks toward the rear of the Fallen, skull smashed. and now the dying Luke's legs buckle and he collapses atop Fergie.
FERGIE: Fallen, skull smashed. and now the dying Luke's legs buckle and he collapses atop Fergie.
SCHAEFFER: On the porch of the house, looking toward the barn.
SAMUEL: ( stricken ) Mr. Book?
SCHAEFFER: Get back in there.
RACHEL: My son is out there!
SCHAEFFER: Nobody's going to hurt your son.
MCELROY: ( softly )
SCHAEFFER: What the hell happened?
BOOK: Standing in shadow at the back of the barn next to a hay HIS POV – MCELROY Moving toward the center of the barn.
BOOK: As he starts to move even further back, he nudges into a rope fastened to the wall behind him, He looks at it, looks HIS POV – THE ROPE It runs from where it is fastened to the wall straight up to the center roofbeam of the barn to a trolley fixed to a track that runs the length of the roofbeam. Attached to this trolley is a big hayfork ( Paul Krantz has one ), U-shaped, sharply- pointed at each end of the U. the points hanging toward the floor. The thing weighs about eighty pounds, and is suspended in place by the rope anchored at the wall next to Book.
MCELROY: Moving out toward the center of the barn, almost under the suspended hay fork. He stops short, listens. Then, either spotting a moving shadow or hearing a SOUND, he FIRES. His shot rattles off the side of a manure spreader. He SHOUTS:
MCELROY: Book, you sneaky bastard, I know you're here! Come out and fight!
SCHAEFFER: On the front porch, looking around for the location of the sounding bell. He takes a step toward the barn, the stops, looks back toward the house. frustrated.
BOOK: ( shouting ) Hey, Mac!
MCELROY: As he turns toward the SOUND of Book's voice.
HAY FORK: As it plummets down, causing a RATCHETING SOUND that fills the barn, even drowns out the SOUND of the bell.
MCELROY: Eyes darting wildly, looking up.
MCELROY: Diving to one side.
MCELROY: Staring at the fork pop-eyed.
BOOK: Sprinting toward a ladder thrust up through an opening in the barn floor just in front of his parked car.
MCELROY: Spotting Book, coming up to one knee, quick-aiming, FIRING. The shot smashes the windshield of the car.
BOOK: Diving, rolling, slamming into the top of the ladder, flailing down out of sight.
MCELROY: FIRING AGAIN, then again. Emptying the gun, cursing as he begins to reload, gets to his feet, starts toward the ladder. The BELL still SOUNDING outside. The hood of the car SLOWLY
ANGLE: As McElroy wheels at the movement of the car's hood, FIRES MCELROY'S POV – LAPP BUGGY The buckshot virtually blows the dashboard off.
SCHAEFFER: Comes hesitantly down the path toward the barn, looking toward the sound of the bell, but also looking back in glances toward the house to make sure Rachel and Eli stay where they are. He still can't see Samuel.
SCHAEFFER: Turning, SHOUTING:
SCHAEFFER: You stay put!
RACHEL: She stops. She is also unable to see Samuel.
SCHAEFFER: Moving out toward the barn, rounding a corner. and there is Samuel at the bellrope. He starts toward him.
SCHAEFFER: Cut that out!
SCHAEFFER: Get down to the house and stay there!
RACHEL: Already halfway out to the barn, running to gather Sam in her arms. then to lead him back toward the house.
SCHAEFFER: Turning, starting very slowly toward the barn.
BOOK: He stands below in a cowpen, using the cows for cover. The cows stare balefully at him. A large goat nuzzles him, hooks at him with its horns. Book waits, watches.
BOOK: Now, quickly, he ducks back out through the entrance, crosses to the door to the cowpen, very cautiously peers out..
MCELROY: Turning slowly toward the cowpen. then FIRES twice as his eye catches the motion of the swinging door. His shots blow half a row of Eli's precious tools off an adjacent wall. McElroy reloads, starts across toward the door.
ELI: Praise Gott!
ELI: ( fiercely ) No, Rachel.
RACHEL: I have to help him!
ELI: It is not our way!
MCELROY: Moving among the cows, stepping cautiously between the The goat nudges him once, then butts him rather firmly. McElroy swats at him with the gun butt, moves to the door. As he arrives, he HEARS a noise – very slight – from the direction of the silo. He enters the passage way, looks in toward the silo entrance, He hesitates. Another slight noise. He steps in to the base of the inner ladder, looks up.
MCELROY: Climbing with difficulty, shotgun clutched in one hand.
BOOK: He climbs up to the second kickboard, pauses, checks the distance to the floor, starts upward again.
MCELROY: Rattling up the other ladder, approaching the third kickboard.
BOOK: Listening tensely, hearing McElroy arrive on the other side of the kickboard. Then, deliberately, Book makes a fist, raps on the board smartly once.
MCELROY: Startled, REACTING. He sets his feet, leans back against the back wall of the ladder well, brings the shotgun up, puts the muzzle against the kickboard, clicks off the safety.
BOOK: We HEAR with him the thump of the muzzle, the CLICK. and, with marvelous speed, Book pulls the kickboard and drops it to the floor. McELROY – FLASH CUT Staring in, stun-eyed, already falling forward ( having leaned his weight on the shotgun ) as Book seizes the shotgun by the barrel, pulls inward.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As McElroy pitches forward through the opening, SCREAMS and GRABS as he plunges past Book. The shotgun FIRES as McElroy manages to hold onto Book, and both men plunge thirty feet to the bottom of the silo.
BOOK: He falls almost straight down, lands on his back, lies His forward motion has carried him across the silo. His head bounds off the white brick wall about five feet up. and he falls in a heap, blood gushing from his head, as.
MCELROY: His forward motion has carried him across the silo. His head bounds off the white brick wall about five feet up. and he falls in a heap, blood gushing from his head, as.
WIDER: Schaeffer holding the pistol. He cocks the pistol, tenses as if to FIRE ( and he is actually about to ). when there is a SOUND behind him. He snaps around.
SCHAEFFER: He eases the hammer down on this pistol, speaks softly:
SCHAEFFER: Okay, Johnny. On your feet.
THE SCENE: As Book struggles to his feet – Schaeffer holding the pistol tight to Book's head. Book turns, sees Samuel and Stoltzfus, Schaeffer shoves Book toward the opening. As Book moves toward Samuel, he speaks quietly:
BOOK: It's okay, Sam.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As Book and McElroy move out of the silo, down the passageway toward the milkhouse, Stoltzfus and Sam ( after a glance in at the inert McElroy ) follow and.
SCHAEFFER: Hold it.
SCHAEFFER: Get back, you people! Keep moving, Johnny.
BOOK: You're going to have to do it right here, Schaeffer.
SCHAEFFER: Don't try me, Johnny!
ELI: So. will you kill us all, then?
ANGLE: As Schaeffer's eyes waver between Book and Eli, Book slowly turns until he is facing Schaeffer. the gun now leveled – and almost pressing against – Book's chest. Book locks eyes with Schaeffer.
BOOK: It's all over, Paul.
SCHAEFFER: Move! Or you die right here!
ANOTHER ANGLE: As Book bends, picks up the pistol, releases Schaeffer, pushes him away. Schaeffer staggers against Hochstetler, who – partly to keep him from falling, and partly ( it appears ) to congratulate him on his surrender – wraps one brawny arm around Schaeffer's shoulders, gives him a short approving nod. holds Schaeffer as:
BOOK: Turning, looking into the crowd, finding Rachel. Their gazes meet, hold for a long MOMENT. In the eyes of both we read resignation. whatever there was between them has been terribly damaged. It is almost certainly over for them, too.
SAMUEL: Are you really ever coming back?
BOOK: Got to, Sam. You and I are going to a courthouse together, put some people behind bars.
SAMUEL: Have you got your gun on now?
BOOK: Sure have, Sam.
RACHEL: I want you to take this. to remember Where's my baggy pants?
BOOK: Where's my baggy pants?
RACHEL: Here. Whenever you want them.
ELI: You be careful, John Book! Out among them English!
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Earl W. Wallace Pamela Wallace William Kelley
