CASE 39: Written by Ray Wright
FRIGHTENED EYE: As a ten-year-old GIRL sits up in bed. Dead tired. Staring at the two dark faces peering in at her.
GIRL: I can see you. And the door closes, leaving us once more in total darkness. We can hear them bickering again as they shuffle away, their footsteps descending the stairs, fading into the uneasy silence of this old house.
DARLA: and we know from yesterday that the base of a triangle times half the height equals the area. A girl in the back row raises her hand.
DARLA: Yes, Mia?
GIRL: Lucy's asleep again. Darla puts down the chalk and comes up the aisle to where a slight, fair-skinned girl in a thrift shop dress sleeps head down on her desk. The girl from the opening scene. LUCY SHERIDAN. Darla stands over her with obvious concern. Puts a finger to her lips to quiet the giggles.
DARLA: Let her sleep. She draws the shade. It drops a shadowbox on the sleeping INT. COUNSELING ROOM, DEPARTMENT OF CHILD SERVICES, LOS ANGELES - DAY A former gang member sitting with his wife and troubled eight- year-old son. The MARTINEZ FAMILY. A family in crisis. Sitting opposite is an LA County social worker. Twenties. Attractive but overworked. EMILY.
GANG MEMBER: He would just go off, you know, start tearin' the place down. You didn't even know why he was doin' it half the time, you just got out of his way.
EMILY: And what you learned from your father now Diego's learning from you.? It's painful for him to hear that. He loves his son, quit the streets for him. Overcome by emotion, he nods yes.
EMILY: That really upsets you, doesn't it? He wipes his eyes on his tattooed arm.
GANG MEMBER: Yeah. Cuz I mean I don't want him to be like me. The boy looks at his father, has never seen him cry before.
EMILY: A whole week without skipping school? Is that true? He smiles, nods. A glimpse of the boy he might have been.
EMILY: That's the last time I make a bet with ( to his parents ) See you guys next week. The Martinez family heads down the hall, Diego lagging behind. Emily watches with guarded optimism, knowing their chances. Then turns to the NEXT FAMILY, welcoming the
EMILY: You cut your hair. It looks great.
EMILY: No one is trying to steal your child, they found bruises and cigarette burns Mrs Lynch, I read the medical report well, if you feel you need legal representation that's perfectly within your rights. A flurry of obscenities followed by a dial tone. Emily puts the phone down. Sighs wearily.
WAYNE: How many active cases you have?
EMILY: He drops another file on her desk.
EMILY: No, absolutely not, look at this, Wayne, look, I'm buried
WAYNE: Sorry, Em, we all are. He walks off. Emily shoves the new file onto the shelf above her desk. Looks at it guiltily. Takes it down again. Handwritten on the front: SHERIDAN, LUCY. She opens it. A school portrait of ten-year-old Lucy clipped to the preliminary report. The sad face draws Emily in.
EMILY: Don't fight. Hey, that's his. Turns on the tv. World news. Violence. People suffering. Turns it off. Puts on some quiet music. Hits play on her answering machine as she flops down barefoot on the sofa with a magazine, peeling an orange, decompressing.
DOUG'S VOICE: Exhausted, her career path questionable, her faith in mankind shaken, she resisted her tendency toward introspection and went to have a drink with her friend BEEP. Emily gives a tired sigh. Faint smile under it.
DOUG: I am so in your head. She gives him a kiss. Sits down beside him.
EMILY: Be honest. The whole psychology thing, it's just about scoring chicks, isn't it?
DOUG: Regrettably, yes. They share a laugh. He gestures to the bartender for another You know what freaks me out?
EMILY: You know what freaks me out?
DOUG: That you have a four-year degree and make seventeen grand a year after taxes?
EMILY: I sit there talking to these families, you know, like I'm some expert. My family's a train wreck. I mean, I had this moment today where I realized I might be totally full of it.
DOUG: Everybody's full of it. In the end you're a number to call for people who don't have anyone else. There's no way that's bad. Emily nods, appreciates that. Recognizes a girl going by in the crowd. A friend from school. Well-dressed. Career- oriented. The track Emily might be on if she weren't a social worker.
EMILY: Hey Becca.
FRIEND: ( HUGGING HER )
EMILY: No, it's me, it's just been a crazy couple weeks. You remember Doug.
FRIEND: ( HANDSHAKE )
DOUG: So anyway, I've done some soul searching and I just want to say that if a full-on relationship feels like too much right now, I'd be willing to consider a purely physical one. Emily, sipping her beer, smiles.
DOUG: Hey, you might actually enjoy yourself.
EMILY: I'm sure I would, I just. Hard to explain. Doug saves her the trouble.
DOUG: I know, I know, the job, you get home you don't have anything left. Emily nods yeah, leans in closer, the friendly banter giving way to a moment of real sincerity.
EMILY: If it were anyone, it'd be you. They exchange a look then Doug clinks his glass against hers. And as they drink together after a long day, more than friends, less than lovers.
EMILY: What are they doing to you?
WOMAN'S VOICE: Emily Jennings. Child Services? We spoke on the phone.? Peering through the crack is the pallid, bony face from the upstairs window. Lucy's mother. MARGARET SHERIDAN.
EMILY: Emily Jennings. Child Services? We spoke on the phone.? Peering through the crack is the pallid, bony face from the upstairs window. Lucy's mother. MARGARET SHERIDAN.
MARGARET: You said the seventeenth.
EMILY: Today is the seventeenth.
MARGARET: Is not.
EMILY: I'm sorry, but it is.
MARGARET: Friday was the thirteenth. Emily, rather amazed at the conversation she's having, takes a newspaper from her bag. Indicates the date.
EMILY: Friday was the fourteenth, that makes today the seventeenth. Monday the seventeenth. The date of our The door closes in Emily's face. What the hell? Then we hear the chain unlock. It opens again.
EMILY: Come down, I'd like to meet you. Lucy hesitates, sensing her mother's disapproval. Comes slowly down the stairs. Emily shakes her hand.
EMILY: My name's Emily. What's yours?
LUCY: Pretty name. Pretty girl. Lucy turns shyly away.
EMILY: Pretty name. Pretty girl. Lucy turns shyly away.
EMILY: ( TO MARGARET )
EMILY: When do you expect your husband back? Margaret shrugs.
EMILY: Because we've found it's more beneficial if the whole family participates.
MARGARET: Well he's not home so. Shrugs again.
EMILY: Do you have any way of contacting him?
MARGARET: Not if I don't know where he is. Just then we hear a POWER TOOL go on in the basement. Emily, sensing the lie, indicates the floor.
EMILY: Is that.? Margaret averts her eyes.
EMILY: Would you ask him to join us?
MARGARET: He doesn't have anything to say.
EMILY: Would you ask him? Margaret weighs Emily's resolve, gives Lucy a cautionary glance then exits. We hear her open a door and holler into the basement over the noise of the power tool.
EMILY: It'll be okay. Lucy not so sure. The FOOTSTEPS are upon them. EDWARD SHERIDAN makes his entrance. A menacing man with a gaunt face and dark deep-set eyes. Emily holds out her hand.
EMILY: Hi, I'm Emily Edward forgoes the handshake, his contempt obvious. Sits beside Lucy on the sofa. Margaret sits on the other side. Lucy tenses, trapped between them. Emily speaks with kindness and composure. Hostile encounters part of the job.
EMILY: I'm here today because Lucy's school is concerned about changes they're seeing in her academic performance. The kinds of changes they're seeing are often associated with family problems. Edward leans over and whispers something caustic in Margaret's ear.
MARGARET: Eddie says we don't have family problems.
EMILY: That's just it, many times a family won't even know they're having problems until it's too late. That's where we come in. We help families communicate and learn healthier ways of resolving conflict. Edward whispers again in Margaret's ear.
MARGARET: Eddie says we don't need your help.
EMILY: Mr Sheridan, is there some reason you won't speak to me directly? Edward just stares at her.
EMILY: ( TO MARGARET )
MARGARET: Eddie doesn't like speakin' out of anger. Emily does well to hide her fear. Refusing to be intimidated, she engages Edward's stare. A battle of wills. But his gaze has a murderous intensity she can't match. She looks down, shuffling papers. Battle lost.
WAYNE: No laws against being weird, Em. Send it over to CMC, we'll do a follow-up in a I didn't say weird, I said scary. The guy sat there the entire time staring at me, the mother is like his emotional Wayne pauses in mock bewilderment.
EMILY: I didn't say weird, I said scary. The guy sat there the entire time staring at me, the mother is like his emotional Wayne pauses in mock bewilderment.
WAYNE: Wait, did you just fly to New York and meet my parents?
EMILY: Wayne, this girl's in trouble. I can feel it. Beneath Wayne's humor, a sober, hard-learned practicality.
WAYNE: Wanna know what I can feel? The lawsuit we're gonna get hit with if we violate her parents' rights without any evidence they've done something wrong.
EMILY: Every time I talk to you you sound more like a lawyer, you know that?
WAYNE: Yeah, well, maybe because every time I make an emotional decision I get called by one. I'm sorry, you're gonna have to let this one go.
EMILY: You put these files in front of me and you ask me to tell you what's going on. Well, I'm telling you, there's something going on and it's not something good. I've done my job, I've told you, what you do with it is yours. She walks off. Wayne alone after hours with his conscience.
EDWARD: They really are God's miracles. Day she was born was the happiest day of our lives. We're not perfect parents, we know that, but we figure if you let `em know how much you love `em a lot of the other stuff takes care of itself. Wayne nods his agreement. Edward puts his arm around Lucy for effect. Her eyes go to Emily. A silent plea for help.
EMILY: ( HOSTILE )
EDWARD: Course it does, she's our daughter. With a glance Wayne cautions Emily about her tone of voice.
EMILY: So you have no idea why she's falling asleep at school every day? Why she's not able to sleep at home? Edward looks at Margaret, then Emily, affects bewilderment.
EDWARD: Bad dreams?
EMILY: He's gonna be having bad dreams when he gets hit with child endangerment. ( off Wayne's reluctance ) Don't tell me you're buying this daddy's little girl routine?
WAYNE: So they're overcompensating a little.
EMILY: A little? Let me talk to her. Alone. She wants to talk.
WAYNE: Five minutes. Talk to them about how much they love kids. She goes out the door.
EM: Five minutes. Talk to them about how much they love kids. She goes out the door.
EMILY: Five minutes. Talk to them about how much they love kids. She goes out the door.
EMILY: I knew someone at school named Lucy, she was a writer. Do you ever write? I do sometimes, it helps me sort out how I'm Lucy doesn't take the bait. She stops for a drink at a water fountain. Emily bends for a sip after. Misfires. As she wipes her face, embarrassed:
EMILY: Okay, I just shot like a gallon of water up my nose. So much for establishing Lucy smiles, for the first time. It's the opening Emily was looking for. Maintaining that precious eye contact,
EMILY: What's happening to you? I can help. Let me help. Lucy looks away, eyes brimming with tears.
EMILY: What is it, sweetheart?
LUCY: They hate me. She lowers her head in shame, tears rolling down.
EMILY: I'm sure they don't hate you.
LUCY: They do. I hear them. They go in the cellar and talk.
EMILY: What do they talk about?
LUCY: Sending me to hell. Emily's mouth falls open.
EMILY: You've heard them say that? Lucy nods. As Emily registers this in quiet horror.
EMILY: It's okay. You can tell him. He's on our side.
WAYNE: Did you hear your parents say they were going to hurt you? Nobody sees what Lucy sees at this moment. Edward glaring in at her through the window. Lucy looks at Wayne, shakes her head. Wayne looks at Emily, case closed.
EMILY: She doesn't trust anybody. You think I made it up?
WAYNE: I think you'd do just about anything you had to do to help a child you thought was at risk. Here are the facts, Emily. They haven't laid a finger on her that we can tell. And we have no proof they intend to. Meanwhile on your desk right now are thirty-plus cases of actionable abuse. What about those?
EMILY: I'm not giving up on her, Wayne.
WAYNE: Yes, you are, you're leaving this alone. A look that says he means it.
EMILY: I hope you can live with a dead child on your conscience.
WAYNE: ( HURT )
EMILY: So that's it? We let kids get killed until they rewrite the goddamn laws? She exits before he can answer, doesn't want to hear it.
BARRON: Was just thinking about you, got a nice letter from Sandy Hutchinson. She drops Lucy's file on his desk. Whatever Barron was going to say is no longer relevant. Soberly, after a pause:
BARRON: Well, it's sitting in front of me which means our good friend Wayne thinks it fails to meet the criteria for child endangerment and has told you in no uncertain terms to leave it alone.?
EMILY: Surprise, surprise. She starts to open the file. Barron stops her.
BARRON: I can't, Emily. I'm sorry.
EMILY: Mike, I'm desperate here. Tense beat. The need for privacy now apparent, Barron gets up and closes his door. Sits down at his desk again.
BARRON: You know how dear to my heart the work you do is, but the department doesn't pay me to stakeout potential child abusers. Last time almost cost me my job.
EMILY: This girl heard her parents say they're going to send her to hell.
BARRON: Sickening as that is, you're a part of the system that handles those situations, I'm not.
EMILY: The system is broken.
BARRON: Maybe you just need to let it work.
EMILY: What? Jesus, I feel like I'm talking to Wayne. You don't want to get involved, fine, but don't bullshit me, I'm running out of people I respect.
BARRON: Okay. No bullshit. Give me evidence of a crime, I'll be all over it. Till then there's nothing I can do.
EMILY: I just wanted you to know I haven't forgotten about you. I'm doing everything I can. Lucy hugs her, clinging for a moment.
LUCY: If I disappear will you come look for me?
EMILY: You're not going to disappear.
LUCY: If I do? Emily holds her gaze, seeing the fear. Backing away, Lucy indicates the bus.
LUCY: I have to go. They get mad when I miss the bus. Lucy turns to go. Emily watches. Helpless.
EMILY: Lucy, wait. Takes her cell phone from her bag. Puts her number on speed If anything happens, call me, okay? Just press this. Don't let your parents know you have it. Tucks the cell phone in Lucy's coat pocket.
EMILY: If anything happens, call me, okay? Just press this. Don't let your parents know you have it. Tucks the cell phone in Lucy's coat pocket.
EMILY: I'm gonna get you out of there, I Lucy boards the bus. Waves to Emily from a back window as it drives away. Emily waves back, heart in her throat. Might be the last time she sees her alive.
ANSWERING MACHINE: Hey, this is Doug, here it comes -
EMILY: It's me, thought you might be up, um, anyway, call if you get this. Hangs up. Clicks on the tv remote. Channel-surfs. World news. Cooking show. Home shopping network.
EMILY: Too late, I met someone else. A child's whisper.
EMILY: ( concerned but calm ) Lucy? Are you okay?
EMILY: Why? Why are you scared, honey?
EMILY: Why are you sorry?
EMILY: Okay, listen, I want you to go over and open the window. Can you do that? LUCY ( V.O. ) ( softly; drifting off ) I'm sooorry.
EMILY: Lucy, no, wake up!
EMILY: ( FROM PHONE )
EMILY: Mike, it's Emily, listen, that girl I told you about, I think she's in trouble - - yeah, I know what you said, but Mike, you're not listening
HELP ME!: EXT. EMILY'S CAR - NIGHT Emily fumbles with her keys. Gets the right one in the door. Opens it. Jumps in. Starts the engine. Peels off down the INT. LUCY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT The cell phone turns itself off, plunging the room into total In BLACK, we hear FOOTSTEPS coming up the stairs. Down the hall. Stopping at the door. The knob turning. The click of the latch. The door opening. A shaft of light. Edward and Margaret peering in with frenzied anticipation: Lucy is asleep. The time has come.
BARRON: What are we doing here?
EMILY: Saving her life! She goes up the walkway. Barron lagging a few steps behind, eyeing the darkened house.
BARRON: They're asleep.
EMILY: They're not asleep. Emily hears something inside the house.
EMILY: Did you hear that?
BARRON: I didn't hear anything. Emily, trusting her gut, starts pounding on the door.
EMILY: Leave her alone!
EMILY: Did you hear that?! Barron pounds his big fist on the door.
BARRON: Police, open up!
EMILY: Break it down! Barron rams his shoulder against the door, but it holds INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT We see Lucy's screaming face through the oven window as Margaret cranks the temperature dial as high as it will go.
EMILY: BREAK IT DOWN! INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT The front door comes crashing down, kicked off its hinges by Barron. Emily and he race in.
EMILY: They take off toward the kitchen at the end of the hall.
LUCY?!: They take off toward the kitchen at the end of the hall.
EMILY: Oh my God. Edward tries to fend Barron off. It's a mistake. Barron unleashes a devastating blow that sends him recoiling into the fridge so hard the back of his head leaves a visible dent in the door. Emily shoves Margaret aside and throws open the oven. Pulls Lucy out onto the kitchen floor, swatting out her burning pajamas with a dish towel. Margaret grabs a steak knife and rushes at Emily, but Barron has her covered. Backhands Margaret so hard it spins her around fully before dropping her to the floor.
BARRON: The hell's the matter with you people?! Pajamas scorched, wild with terror, Lucy cries in great heaving sobs in Emily's arms. Reduced to tears herself, Emily keeps saying the same thing over and over.
EMILY: I gotcha. I gotcha. I gotcha. Shielding her from the sight of her parents: Margaret sprawled on the linoleum weeping. Edward slouched against the fridge, blood pouring down his shirt, his broken jaw hanging open like a man thinking wow.
STATE PROSECUTOR: Prosecution asks that you disallow an insanity defense. This was an act committed with premeditation, malice
PUBLIC DEFENDER: Your honor, the egregiousness of the crime makes the competency question all the more relevant.
JUDGE: Yes. I hereby order the defendants undergo psychiatric evaluation to determine their mental fitness for trial.
EMILY: Steal a pizza, San Quentin, try killing your kid, Freudian dream analysis.
BARRON: Well, you're gonna hate me for saying this, but my money's on crazy.
EMILY: Did they or did they not know what they were doing? That's the legal standard. They knew, they knew damn well!
BARRON: It's not that simple sometimes.
EMILY: ( stops on a dime ) Meaning what exactly? Barron hesitates. He's crossing the line by telling her When we brought them in that night they told Captain Lister. They think she's evil, some kind of demon spirit, minion of the devil or something.
BARRON: When we brought them in that night they told Captain Lister. They think she's evil, some kind of demon spirit, minion of the devil or something.
EMILY: ( LAUGHS )
BARRON: No, but that might be the world they're living in.
DOUG: and what's the most important thing we talked about that you have to remember?
LUCY: It's not my fault what happened.
DOUG: That's right and you know what? It's Lucy nods, not entirely convinced. Doug gives her a pat, crosses to the exit. At the door he runs into Emily. Shakes his head, awed at what she did.
DOUG: That is some seriously proactive social work happenin' there. You all right?
EMILY: Yeah, I'm okay. How's she doing?
DOUG: Typical reaction, blames herself. We'll get there. I'm gonna put her in a group setting, see if I can get her to open up.
EMILY: Group therapy for kids, what's that say about the world? He nods - no kidding, heads off. Emily comes over and sits on Lucy's bed. Strokes her hair.
EMILY: Good news. You get to leave here Doug said I might have to go to a state Only for a few days, till we find a better place.
LUCY: Doug said I might have to go to a state Only for a few days, till we find a better place.
EMILY: Only for a few days, till we find a better place.
LUCY: Why can't I live with you?
EMILY: Oh, sweetheart. That would never be It's complicated, there's a whole process, I'm not even a foster parent. Lucy gives a sad nod. Emily touches her arm.
LUCY: It's complicated, there's a whole process, I'm not even a foster parent. Lucy gives a sad nod. Emily touches her arm.
EMILY: It's complicated, there's a whole process, I'm not even a foster parent. Lucy gives a sad nod. Emily touches her arm.
EMILY: I'm sorry.
COORDINATOR: They were supposed to call you. We don't have any rooms.
EMILY: There was a mixup with the dates. Sorry. Emily rolls her eyes. Lucy standing there holding a INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY Through the windshield Lucy watches Emily on a pay phone outside a convenience store. Her back is to us but you can see she's arguing with someone, scratching addresses off a typed list with a ballpoint.
COORDINATOR: There was a mixup with the dates. Sorry. Emily rolls her eyes. Lucy standing there holding a INT. EMILY'S CAR - DAY Through the windshield Lucy watches Emily on a pay phone outside a convenience store. Her back is to us but you can see she's arguing with someone, scratching addresses off a typed list with a ballpoint.
EMILY: Hey, are you hungry? Let's get some lunch. What kind of food do you like?
LUCY: There's nowhere for me to go is there? Heartbreaking. Emily can't lie. She turns off the engine and leans back with a sigh. Lucy's silence is a plea for I can't, Lucy, it wouldn't work, I live in this tiny house, I. I'm sorry, I'm not mom material.
EMILY: I can't, Lucy, it wouldn't work, I live in this tiny house, I. I'm sorry, I'm not mom material.
LUCY: You don't have to be my mom. Just my A ten-year-old girl stranded at a convenience store, suitcase in her lap. Emily stares out the windshield, wrestling with her conscience.
EMILY: I know what it feels like to be that age and be unwanted. It's terrifying. She needs to be with someone she trusts; she trusts me. So much of our time is spent negotiating red tape, I think if we just look at the situation - this one situation, this one child - it's clear what's best for her. The head of the panel is a bloated bureaucrat in a polka dot blouse ( NANCY ).
NANCY: This is highly irregular and I'll tell you right now it makes me very uncomfortable. But since, Wayne, you've spoken so persuasively on Miss Jennings's INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY Emily comes out and nods yes to Lucy who waits with a guardian. As they hug:
EMILY: I like to think of it as a glass-half- full situation. Kitchen. Bathroom. Fish. And here, is your room.
EMILY: Be okay? Lucy nods yes.
LUCY: Where's your family?
EMILY: My family. well, I've met my dad twice and my mom's not a part of my life ( choosing her words ) Sometimes people have kids and then decide they don't want to be parents. Beneath the measured tone Emily's pain is revealed, raw and untouchable, her entire life a rebellion against it. She opens Lucy's suitcase on the bed. Pauses, remembering I'm glad you're here. Lucy comes over to help unpack the clothes.
LUCY: ( choosing her words ) Sometimes people have kids and then decide they don't want to be parents. Beneath the measured tone Emily's pain is revealed, raw and untouchable, her entire life a rebellion against it. She opens Lucy's suitcase on the bed. Pauses, remembering I'm glad you're here. Lucy comes over to help unpack the clothes.
EMILY: ( choosing her words ) Sometimes people have kids and then decide they don't want to be parents. Beneath the measured tone Emily's pain is revealed, raw and untouchable, her entire life a rebellion against it. She opens Lucy's suitcase on the bed. Pauses, remembering I'm glad you're here. Lucy comes over to help unpack the clothes.
EMILY: I'm glad you're here. Lucy comes over to help unpack the clothes.
LUCY: What's this?
EMILY: Chamomile, when I get stressed out it helps me sleep.
EMILY: None of this ever should have happened, if I could make it go away I would.
LUCY: You did. Nice moment for Emily. A rare triumph. She tucks Lucy in. Turns off the bedside light.
EMILY: I'm right down the hall if you need me. Lucy settles. Emily pauses at the door, looks back at the lost child she's taken in, then closes the door halfway.
EMILY: I have to grab some of her things, might take me a minute.
COURT CLERK: I trust ya, Em, make sure you lock it on the way out.
A BARRICADE: Emily stares at it. Looks over at Edward and Margaret's bed, imagining them here behind this door. Slides the bureau aside. Opens the deadbolts. And as the door swings open she is looking straight down the hall at
LUCY'S BEDROOM: Emily stares, bewildered.
DOUG: Sometimes when our parents aren't getting along it's better if they don't see each other for a while, that's what a `restraining order' does.
DOUG: She's starting to come out of her shell. It's good, I just wish I thought it was me making the difference. Emily accepts the compliment.
EMILY: I went by the house. I think her mom and dad were barricading themselves in their room at night. How sick is that?
DOUG: Hatred and fear are part of the same pathology - oh, but I forgot, you don't think they're crazy.
EMILY: I'm coming around. As they part ways.
EMILY: Lucy nods, apprehensive, but she's ready to face it. Emily hugs her.
EMILY: This is your new beginning. Lucy gets out. Pauses on the sidewalk.
LUCY: I love you, Emily. Emily, touched, smiles.
EMILY: I love you, too. Lucy goes up the walk. Emily watches her safely into the INT. CHILD SERVICES DEPARTMENT - DAY Emily draws grim looks as she crosses the common area. A pall hanging over the entire department. The first person she walks past says:
COWORKER: Wayne's looking for you. The second person:
COWORKER #2: Wayne wants to
EMILY: Got it. She comes past Wayne's office. Empty. A coworker points over toward Emily's cubicle - he's there. She goes over. Wayne's inside, grave-faced, looking for a file. He finds it on the shelf. A photo of eight-year-old DIEGO clipped inside the cover. The boy we met earlier.
EMILY: What's up with Diego? Wayne hesitates, wanting to spare her the bad news.
WAYNE: Why don't we talk in my office.
EMILY: Tell me what's going on.
WAYNE: We don't know why yet, but. he killed his mother and father last night. Emily stands there, jaw on the floor.
EMILY: What happened?
BARRON: Sure you want to see this? With an uncertain nod she follows him inside.
BARRON: Gets a tire iron from the garage, comes back inside, locks all the doors and windows, kills them in their sleep. The master bedroom. A bloodbath.
BARRON: Had to use dental records to identify the Emily looks around, aghast.
EMILY: An eight-year-old did this? There's no I was there when they brought him in. Took three guys my size to subdue him. Kid was climbing the walls. Barron turns to the window and - WHAM! - AN ATTACK DOG HITS THE GLASS RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIS FACE. Barron recoils with a yelp. Then, embarrassed, eyes the TRIO OF BATTLE-SCARRED PIT BULLS prowling the chainlink-fenced backyard.
BARRON: I was there when they brought him in. Took three guys my size to subdue him. Kid was climbing the walls. Barron turns to the window and - WHAM! - AN ATTACK DOG HITS THE GLASS RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIS FACE. Barron recoils with a yelp. Then, embarrassed, eyes the TRIO OF BATTLE-SCARRED PIT BULLS prowling the chainlink-fenced backyard.
BARRON: Just your average American family.
EMILY: Where is he now?
BARRON: Juvie lockup. And, no, I'm not taking you to see him.
EMILY: You want to know what happened?
BARRON: I know what happened.
EMILY: I don't. I need to talk to him. Mike, please, I care about this kid.
EMILY: Emily tells the cop at the cell door:
EMILY: Let me in. He won't hurt me. The cop looks at Mike Barron who nods it's okay. The cop opens the cell. Emily enters. Diego looks up at her, shuddering with emotion:
DIEGO: Are they dead? Emily, gutted, nods yes. Diego buries his face in Emily's stomach and sobs.
EMILY: What happened? Tell me what happened.
DIEGO: ( SOBBING )
DOUG: Every family you sit down with every day of every week is a family in crisis. Those are your odds. That's the job you do. Trying to beat them. Wipes away her tears. The hair from her face.
DOUG: You're one person, Em. You can't save the world.
LUCY: You okay? Emily nods, putting on a brave face to spare Lucy.
EMILY: It's just work. Don't worry. Lucy nods okay. They walk on in silence for a moment.
LUCY: Why do you do it if it makes you sad?
EMILY: My job? I don't know, I guess. I guess maybe I want to believe families can work, so I can have my own someday, I don't know - does that make sense? Lucy nods, takes her hand. They walk off up the beach INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - DAY Emily, days later, dressed for work, halves an omelet with a spatula and slides the halves onto two plates.
EMILY: ( calls to other room ) There's no answer. Emily goes to get her.
EMILY: Honey, breakfa Sees Lucy hide something under her pillow. Emily comes over, brow arched, playful.
EMILY: Come on, let me see. Lucy guiltily eyes the floor. Emily lifts the pillow. Underneath it is a photograph.
EMILY: You went through my things?
LUCY: I'm sorry. I wanted to know what happened to you. Disarming sincerity. Emily's gaze falls to the photo. Quiet moment. She sits down on the bed with it.
LUCY: Is that your mom? Emily nods, lost in the image. It's a photo that captures her entire childhood. Emily and her mother sitting on the steps of a house, together but apart, like a lost child that sat down next to a pretty stranger who hasn't yet noticed her. Emily's ten-year-old face shows the quiet sadness of the disconnect. Reminds you of a child from her caseload.
EMILY: She used to just leave, she'd just.
LUCY: Where was your dad?
EMILY: Gone, he left before I was born. First time I met him I was like thirteen.
LUCY: What'd you say to him?
EMILY: Oh, I had all these things I was gonna say. Angry things I'd thought of and kind of memorized. And um.. And then I met him and I wasn't angry, I was just sad and I told him. ( pauses, raw emotion ) I said, I love you, even if you don't love me. Emily smiles a pained smile and then buries the memory. Lucy, a portrait of contrition:
LUCY: Are you mad at me?
EMILY: No. No, I'm not mad at you. ( puts her arm around her ) But I need you not to do that again, okay? Go through my private things without asking? Lucy nods okay. Emily moves on, with a loving touch:
EMILY: Omelet's getting cold. Better hurry. Lucy exits. Emily eyes the photo a moment longer then stands and puts it away in the filing cabinet. She pauses, feeling exposed, and turns the little key to lock the drawers.
WAYNE: ( SYMPATHETIC )
EMILY: You mean, to make sure I haven't missed anything else?
WAYNE: It's just a legal thing. You'll have them back tomorrow. They exit. She goes in and stares at the BARE SHELF above her desk. Her caseload gone. More than an insult. Everything she cares about. A pink phone message on her keyboard. She picks it up: Mike Barron called. Important.
BARRON: You watch, six months, their lawyer will hire some expert to say they're rehabbed and they'll sue for custody when they get She's not going back there, I'll take her out of state before I let them near her I didn't hear you say that. Emily knows she's misspoken, but lets it stand.
EMILY: She's not going back there, I'll take her out of state before I let them near her I didn't hear you say that. Emily knows she's misspoken, but lets it stand.
BARRON: I didn't hear you say that. Emily knows she's misspoken, but lets it stand.
EMILY: You wanted to talk about something? Barron nods, sips his coffee, a bit uncomfortable.
BARRON: We pulled the Martinezes' phone records. They got a call that night before the From who?
EMILY: From who?
BARRON: ( SOBER PAUSE )
EMILY: Look, I'm not accusing you of anything, I just need to know what was said.
BARRON: Look, I'm not accusing you of anything, I just need to know what was said.
EMILY: That's impossible. I might have called the week before.?
BARRON: I'm talking to you as a friend here, you know that, right?
EMILY: Did you not hear me? I'm telling you, Mike, as a friend, I did not call that Then who did? Go find the guy who broke in and just happened to dial the number of a kid whose case you handle. Emily starts to say something, but stops as a confounding realization comes to her. And then to Barron.
BARRON: Then who did? Go find the guy who broke in and just happened to dial the number of a kid whose case you handle. Emily starts to say something, but stops as a confounding realization comes to her. And then to Barron.
LUCY: He's in my group. ( puts down photo ) .why, did something happen? Emily nods yes. Barron, gently, mindful of Lucy's age:
BARRON: We're trying to figure out why. He got a call Thursday night from this number. I'm just wondering if he might have said It wasn't me.
LUCY: It wasn't me.
BARRON: You didn't call him? Lucy shakes her head. Barron nods okay, then, speaking to her as a father might his own daughter:
BARRON: Lucy, it's hard sometimes to tell the truth, but I know you will because you're a good little girl.
LUCY: I am telling the truth.
EMILY: My backup files are in your room. Diego's is in there. Maybe you got curious and went through some, dialed a It wasn't me, I swear. Complete innocence. Emily nods okay, wanting to believe, but remembering the stolen photograph.
LUCY: It wasn't me, I swear. Complete innocence. Emily nods okay, wanting to believe, but remembering the stolen photograph.
BARRON: The call was at 2 am, are you ever up that late?
LUCY: I didn't call him.
BARRON: Are you ever up that late?
EMILY: Mike, she said no. Maybe someone made a Barron reads Emily's posture and disengages, stands to go.
BARRON: Yeah, maybe so. Night, Lucy.
BARRON: She's lying. And goes down the steps. Emily closes the door. Turns around and there's Lucy. Uncomfortably close.
LUCY: Do you believe me?
EMILY: I believe you. Lucy hugs her and Emily hugs her back, but she's still thinking about what Barron said.
EMILY: Give me back my cases or fire me. Right Wayne, caught unprepared, eating a doughnut.
EMILY: I don't care if it's a hairline fracture, he broke her arm, I don't want him back in that house. He what? He found Christ? When? That recently? Uh huh. Well he should have found Him sooner. Hangs up. Doug leans in the doorway, drops a manila envelope in her in-box. And a computer printout.
EMILY: What's up?
DOUG: Copy of the Sheridans' psych evals for the file. And the cognitive profile Lucy did for me the other day.
EMILY: ( re: Lucy's profile ) How's it look?
DOUG WINTERS: But his tone suggests otherwise.
EMILY: Do I have to beg or are you gonna tell me what's going on?
DOUG: You have to beg.
EMILY: She's `abnormally normal'?
DOUG: I think she faked it, gave the answers she thought she should.
EMILY: Why would she do that?
DOUG: ( SHRUGS )
EMILY: No, I know, I just. The Martinezes' got a call Thursday night. From my house.
DOUG: Did you ask her about it?
EMILY: She said she didn't. Mike thinks she's What do you think?
DOUG: What do you think?
EMILY: I don't know what to think.
DOUG: Hmm. Bring her in after work, I'll do a one-on-one. I wanted to talk to her about this anyway.
EMILY: Got you an extra in case it gets cold. Diego nods without looking up.
EMILY: I need to ask you something. about the night it happened. did you get a call, really late? Diego stops eating. Stares at his food. Shakes his head no - warily, like someone might be listening.
EMILY: You didn't? He shakes his head no. Still staring at his food.
EMILY: Diego, I know you did, they called from my house. Diego puts down his fork, his fear obvious now, his breathing quick and shallow.
EMILY: What's the matter? What's scaring you? He looks at Emily, terrified, starts HYPERVENTILATING.
EMILY: Oh God. Emily tries to calm the panicked boy as he gasps for air, a horrible WHEEZING sound in his throat.
EMILY: It's okay. slow breaths. you'll be ( yelling down hall ) Can somebody help us down here?!
NURSE: He asked to see you before you left. Emily comes over to Diego's bed. He holds her gaze in silence, a secret he's afraid to tell. Emily speaks at a whisper, as if to make the truth less frightening:
EMILY: Who called you? Was it Lucy? Diego's PULSE ACCELERATES on the EKG monitor. He gives a trembling nod.
EMILY: Did she say something to you? Something that scared you? Diego replies in Spanish, barely discernible, his throat raw:
DIEGO: El dijo.
EMILY: `El' dijo? What do you mean, `He said'? Diego looks at her, confused, terrified. His RACING PULSE a jagged green line above the bed.
DIEGO: Era un hombre. A chill goes through Emily.
EMILY: It was a man? Diego gives another trembling nod. Emily beside him, baffled and a bit scared.
LUCY: ( TURNS ) ( TURNS ) ( TURNS ) ( TURNS )
EMILY: Well, photocopying isn't much fun. Lucy stops turning, stares at her, sensing something.
EMILY: Lucy just stares. Doug appears in the doorway.
DOUG: Knock, knock. Sorry I'm late, guys.
DOUG: Go ahead down, I'll be right there. Lucy heads down the hall to the conference room.
DOUG: ( TO EMILY )
EMILY: This is weird. Diego said it was Lucy that called, but he called her a he, he said it was a man.
DOUG: So how's school?
LUCY: Any of your classmates giving you a hard No, they've been nice.
DOUG: Any of your classmates giving you a hard No, they've been nice.
LUCY: No, they've been nice.
DOUG: Sleeping okay?
LUCY: That's not really what you want to talk about, is it, Doug? Awkward pause. Awkward smile.
DOUG: You got me. Opens his file. Takes out her cognitive assessment profile. Lays it flat on the table.
DOUG: Question 16a, are you afraid of the dark? You answered `no'. Question 16b, are you afraid of being alone? `No'. 16c, are afraid of your parents? `No'. You answered `no' to everything in that section. I think some of those should have been yesses. Everybody is afraid of something. Working through our fears, conquering them, is how we get better. So I want you to tell me. What scares Lucy steeples her fingers and rests her chin on top, regards Doug with a look of frank appraisal. It is the face of a child, but behind those eyes there is a keen intelligence.
LUCY: I'll tell you what scares me if you tell me what scares you. Doug did not see this coming.
DOUG: Fair enough. When I was twelve I was climbing a tree and I accidentally put my hand through a giant hornets' nest. They didn't like it. I got stung over a hundred times. They had to rush me to the hospital. I've been afraid of hornets ever since. Don't climb many trees either.
LUCY: You scare yourself?
DOUG: You scare yourself?
LUCY: Why, what about yourself scares you?
DOUG: Why, what about yourself scares you?
LUCY: I have bad thoughts.
DOUG: About what?
LUCY: People in general or certain people?
DOUG: People in general or certain people?
LUCY: Certain people.
DOUG: Like who?
LUCY: You have bad thoughts about me?
DOUG: You have bad thoughts about me?
LUCY: ( SHRUGS )
DOUG: Was there something I said or did that upset you?
LUCY: ( shakes her head ) It's just the way you are.
DOUG: How am I?
LUCY: ( she nods yes ) Do you even know what that means?
DOUG: ( she nods yes ) Do you even know what that means?
LUCY: Easily comprehended. Often lacking sincerity or depth. You're smug, too. Want me to tell you what that means? Dead silence. Doug skewered by a ten-year-old. A boyish shyness emerges, a relic from his own youth.
DOUG: Well, if, um, if I seemed `smug' or `facile' I want to -
LUCY: ( GIRLISH LAUGH )
DOUG: You're a grown up, it's embarrassing.
LUCY: You're a grown up, it's embarrassing.
DOUG: Talked to a lot of ten-year-olds, I don't think I've ever felt like that before.
EMILY: Like what?
DOUG: ( THEN; BAFFLED )
EMILY: What do I do with her in the meantime? Doug pauses, no idea, smiles an eerie smile.
DOUG: Don't let her get in your head. Exits. His paranoia feeding Emily's. In the hush she hears that faint CYCLICAL SQUEAKING. Looks across the darkened office to her cubicle where Lucy is turning circles in her chair again. That face. That face. That face.
LUCY: Are you mad at me?
EMILY: No. Just tired.
LUCY: Want me to brush your hair?
EMILY: That's okay.
LUCY: Are you sure?
EMILY: Some other time.
LUCY: ( STANDS UP )
EMILY: I said no, thank you. Lucy stares at Emily for a moment then sits again. And it's strange, her posture seems subtly different, stiffer, bonier, as if all her muscles have drawn taut under her clothes. In a voice at once innocent and menacing:
LUCY: Doug said something, didn't he?
EMILY: No. Doug? He says you're doing great. Tense silence.
LUCY: What did he tell you?
EMILY: Lucy stares at her, seeing through the facade. Then, oddly bright, taking a bite of food:
LUCY: You're funny.
EMILY: Get some rest.
LUCY: You forgot to kiss me goodnight. A tense pause then Emily walks over and kisses her on the Lucy clutches her wrist as she turns to go.
EMILY: Lucy clutches her wrist as she turns to go.
LUCY: I love you. Emily, trapped, forces a tender smile.
EMILY: I love you, too. Lucy's EYES GLEAM in the darkness. She turns onto her side for sleep, but those eyes don't shut even after Emily has walked out and closed the door behind her.
DOUG: A strange INTERMITTENT STATIC BUZZ on the line.
DOUG: BZZZZT. BZZZZT. BZZZZT. A telecommunications glitch.
DOUG: Try again, sorry. He hangs up. Finds the chapter he's looking for. ANTI- SOCIAL PERSONALITY TYPE. But he hears it again now - BZZZZZZZZT BZZZZZZZZZT - louder, deeper - and realizes, in quiet terror, that it's coming from INSIDE HIS EAR.
HORNET: sitting on the cottony tip, scissoring its wings. Doug stares in disbelief. Mouth gaping. He throws the Q-tip in the toilet. Hits the flush lever. Watches the hornet spiral away. Gone. Stares at the empty bowl. Did I just imagine that? Shaken, he turns to the sink. Wedges his head under the tap and runs water into his ear. Straightens and looks at himself in the mirror, toweling his face, trying to impose rational thought on the situation. But as the water spills from his ear, down his neck, onto his shirt, it brings with it - TWO MORE LIVE HORNETS, half drowned. With a yelp Doug swipes them from his shirt. Crushes them underfoot. Terrified, but clinging to rational thought a moment longer, he turns his head sideways to the mirror, parts his hair, and sees - ANOTHER HORNET crawl from the ear canal, followed by SIX OR
SEVEN MORE!: Rationality goes out the window. He flails at them with the towel. Swats them dead. Picks them up and drops them in the toilet. Studies the last one for a moment. Its little legs twitching. Drops it in. Flushes. A false respite. And a brief one. Because as the FLUSHING NOISE FADES he can hear an ominous DEEP BUZZING SOUND RISING. It's coming from behind him. He turns to have a look. Nothing there. Bare wall. But it's strange: the BUZZING IS STILL BEHIND HIM. With dawning horror Doug turns and checks his back in the mirror, sees
DOUG: Rationality goes out the window. He flails at them with the towel. Swats them dead. Picks them up and drops them in the toilet. Studies the last one for a moment. Its little legs twitching. Drops it in. Flushes. A false respite. And a brief one. Because as the FLUSHING NOISE FADES he can hear an ominous DEEP BUZZING SOUND RISING. It's coming from behind him. He turns to have a look. Nothing there. Bare wall. But it's strange: the BUZZING IS STILL BEHIND HIM. With dawning horror Doug turns and checks his back in the mirror, sees
FUCK!: Rationality goes out the window. He flails at them with the towel. Swats them dead. Picks them up and drops them in the toilet. Studies the last one for a moment. Its little legs twitching. Drops it in. Flushes. A false respite. And a brief one. Because as the FLUSHING NOISE FADES he can hear an ominous DEEP BUZZING SOUND RISING. It's coming from behind him. He turns to have a look. Nothing there. Bare wall. But it's strange: the BUZZING IS STILL BEHIND HIM. With dawning horror Doug turns and checks his back in the mirror, sees
EMILY: See you next week. - and comes down the hall toward the common area. A coworker stands from an adjacent cubicle. DENISE.
DENISE: Seen Doug? He had an appointment with one of my kids this morning, never showed Did you try calling him?
EMILY: Did you try calling him?
DENISE: All I get is voicemail. Emily dials Doug on a fax/phone by the Xerox machine. On the
ANSWERING MACHINE: Hey, this is Doug, here it comes - BEEP. She hangs up. A dark thought sends her toward the exit, calling back to Denise -
EMILY: Cover my desk.
EMILY: Doug, it's me, it's Emily. No answer. She comes down the steps to his car, walks past it and then stops, noticing the window is open a crack. Slipping her hand inside, stretching, she extends one finger just far enough to push the button on the garage door remote clipped to the sunvisor. Up the drive, the door starts to open.
EMILY: No answer. She comes up the stairs into the LIVING ROOM. The tv is still on. Muted. Calls up the next flight of No reply. She goes up the stairs and down the hall and checks the BEDROOM. Empty. The bed unmade. It's when she turns from the room to go back downstairs that she sees him:
EMILY: Doug, you here? No reply. She goes up the stairs and down the hall and checks the BEDROOM. Empty. The bed unmade. It's when she turns from the room to go back downstairs that she sees him:
EMILY: INT. COUNTY CORONER - DAY With stoic grief Emily walks down the cold, fluorescently-lit corridor, intercepts a CORONER as he exits the exam room.
NOOOOO!!!!!: INT. COUNTY CORONER - DAY With stoic grief Emily walks down the cold, fluorescently-lit corridor, intercepts a CORONER as he exits the exam room.
EMILY: Dr Johannsen? He looks at her; pale, bespectacled, a bit standoffish.
EMILY: You did the autopsy on Doug Winters?
CORONER: ( trying to remember ) Winters oh, right, Douglas.
EMILY: How did he die?
CORONER: ( preempting his reply ) I know the rules please, he meant a lot to me.
EMILY: ( preempting his reply ) I know the rules please, he meant a lot to me.
CORONER: Compression fracture of the third and forth vertebrae. Severed his spinal cord. Actual cause of death was. You're saying he did that to himself?
EMILY: You're saying he did that to himself?
CORONER: It appears all his injuries were self- inflicted, yes.
EMILY: Oh come on. He looked like he'd been beaten to death! Don't tell me he was some - some suicidal.
CORONER: Miss, I would never presume to know your friend better than you. But the injuries suggest he was trying to hurt himself. Unfortunately, he succeeded. I am sorry. Emily, composing herself, gives a quiet nod. She has no quarrel with this man.
EMILY: Have you ever seen this before, somebody dying like this? The coroner files the report, world weary.
CORONER: Truly, I am shocked every day by the violence people do to themselves.
LUCY: You think it's my fault, don't you? She turns to face Emily, who measures her words.
EMILY: It was an accident. It was nobody's Lucy holds her gaze. Then, as if to test her, reaches again for Emily's hand. Trapped in the lie, Emily has to let her. And as she drives on in that private hell, holding hands with INT. MIKE BARRON'S OFFICE - DAY Emily, an emotional wreck, confides in Barron.
EMILY: He was scared. He came out of that room with her, Mike, and he was scared. He said she threatened him.
BARRON: Listen. You're still in shock. Let's
NOT: Diego said it was a man on the phone. You know who made that call. There was no one else in the house. ( off his look ) You think I don't know how crazy this Look, I don't know, all I'm saying is a kid in his state of mind maybe isn't the most reliable witness.
EMILY: Diego said it was a man on the phone. You know who made that call. There was no one else in the house. ( off his look ) You think I don't know how crazy this Look, I don't know, all I'm saying is a kid in his state of mind maybe isn't the most reliable witness.
BARRON: Look, I don't know, all I'm saying is a kid in his state of mind maybe isn't the most reliable witness.
EMILY: Why is he in that state of mind? Why was Doug? Pull my phone records. See if she called him.
BARRON: Emily. I already did. There were no calls from your house. Emily's argument collapses. She sits there for a moment, vexed, her intellect telling her one thing, her gut another. She gets up to go. Pauses at the door.
EMILY: Her mother and father, their bedroom door has these deadbolts on it, big ones, two of `em. Something came through that door and they didn't want it ever coming through there again.
INTERVIEWER: And by forcing your daughter into the oven, can you tell me, what did you think the outcome would be?
MARGARET: You mean what were we doing it for?
INTERVIEWER: To kill her.
MARGARET: To kill her.
INTERVIEWER: God's will.
MARGARET: God's will.
INTERVIEWER: And why was it God's will that you should kill your daughter? An eerie smile comes to Margaret's face.
INTERVIEWER: Why is that funny, Margaret?
MARGARET: `Cause she's not my daughter.
INTERVIEWER: You're her mother.?
MARGARET: I bore her, but she's not mine.
INTERVIEWER: Help me understand. If you and Edward are Lucy's biological parents, how can she not be yours?
MARGARET: `Cause she's not Of us.
INTERVIEWER: Not Of you? Margaret nods.
INTERVIEWER: Who is she Of?
MARGARET: Not who, what.
INTERVIEWER: What is she Of?
MARGARET: Stop acting like you don't know what I'm talking about. Stares at him. Her eyes black and unblinking.
INTERVIEWER: You think your daughter is the devil?
MARGARET: Not him himself, Of him, working in his name, in his honor.
INTERVIEWER: Evil incarnate?
MARGARET: I don't care what you call it.
INTERVIEWER: And why do you think that?
MARGARET: Not what I think it's what I know.
INTERVIEWER: How do you know this? Could you give me an example? Margaret pauses. Seeming afraid for the first time. Some secrets perhaps best left untold.
MARGARET: She can make you see things. Visions.
INTERVIEWER: Visions of what?
MARGARET: Hell. Damnation. Whatever you're afraid I see. Any other `special abilities'?
INTERVIEWER: I see. Any other `special abilities'?
MARGARET: People die around her, is that a special She kills people?
INTERVIEWER: She kills people?
MARGARET: Not by her hand, they just die. I had two brothers, Brent and Travis. Margaret's voice falters. Overcome by grief, she dissolves into tears. It's a side of her we've never seen. Human.
MARGARET: .and I mean they was healthy boys, healthy as can be. Eddie, three sisters. Soon as she was born they started dying.
INTERVIEWER: You blame Lucy for their deaths? Margaret nods yes, wiping her eyes. Embarrassed. Unaccustomed to crying in front of strangers.
INTERVIEWER: Why do you imagine you were spared?
MARGARET: I guess she couldn't get rid of us till she found somebody else. Now that she has, I don't imagine we're long for this CLOSE UP ON MARGARET - face streaked with tears, her pain deep and undeniable.
EDWARD: THE HELL DID I JUST SAY?! Edward, please calm
INTERVIEWER: Edward, please calm
EDWARD: YOU AND YOUR GODDAMN QUESTIONS! YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT! A pair of orderlies rush in to restrain him. The CAMERA gets knocked ajar in the struggle. The tape ends as they take Edward screaming to the floor.
EDWARD: IT'S NOT CHILD KILLING IF SHE'S NOT A And that's the interview. Emily stares at the BLANK BLUE SCREEN, transfixed, lowers her gaze to the table. There's a PHOTO tucked inside the psychiatric file. Edward and Margaret in happier times - YOUNG BIBLE CAMP COUNSELORS in T-shirts and hiking boots on a path through sunlit forest. Sweet. Innocent. Emily's age. The year they met perhaps. She holds it up to the newspaper mugshots for a before-and- after comparison. The transformation of their faces is shocking. Emily sits frozen by the realization: Edward and Margaret Sheridan. Not criminals. Victims.
CHILD!: And that's the interview. Emily stares at the BLANK BLUE SCREEN, transfixed, lowers her gaze to the table. There's a PHOTO tucked inside the psychiatric file. Edward and Margaret in happier times - YOUNG BIBLE CAMP COUNSELORS in T-shirts and hiking boots on a path through sunlit forest. Sweet. Innocent. Emily's age. The year they met perhaps. She holds it up to the newspaper mugshots for a before-and- after comparison. The transformation of their faces is shocking. Emily sits frozen by the realization: Edward and Margaret Sheridan. Not criminals. Victims.
CHIEF PSYCHIATRIST: .Woke up screaming, absolutely convinced she was on fire. She wasn't, of course, they managed to sedate her. But it's curious, she displays all the symptoms of a burn patient. Except the burns themselves. Margaret's door. Emily peers through a little square of reinforced glass. A padded cell. Margaret strapped to a bed. Writhing in pain. Laboring to breathe. Eyes swimming.
CHIEF PSYCHIATRIST: In no condition for visitors as you can see. If you'd like, I could let you see Mr Sheridan? Emily hesitates, afraid of him.
EMILY: She casts a departing glance through the window and shudders to see that Margaret's roaming eyes have locked on her in a hollow stare.
EMILY: I know I'm probably the last person you want to see right now, but you're. His stare unnerves her. She stops and collects herself.
EMILY: You're the only one I can talk to. Lucy's been staying with me -
EDWARD: Who died? Emily falls silent. Her voice cracks with emotion.
EMILY: A friend. Edward nods yup. Regards her in silence. Emily speaks, or tries to, just to fill that awful void.
EMILY: I, ummm.
EDWARD: You're scared. Emily, skewered again, nods yes.
EDWARD: You oughta be. Dead silence. She meets his gaze. And there is eye contact, true understanding.
EDWARD: You judged us before you ever walked in that house. Sat there in our living room tellin' us about our problems, how to be better parents - certain of everything and dead wrong about all of it.
EMILY: What is she? It's a question Edward has asked himself once or twice. He leans back in his chair and folds his arms with an almost casual air.
EDWARD: Can tell you what she's not. She not a daughter of mine. She's not a ten-year- old having trouble in school. She's not some innocent victim whose door you busted down and life you saved. And she's not going no place, lady, till she's good and done with you.
EMILY: Done with me how?
EDWARD: However she wants. You think it's an accident her ending up with you? She saw you coming a mile away.
EMILY: Why me? I don't have anything.
EDWARD: You have that you're good. Kindness. Decency. That's what she feeds on. Bleeds ya dry, moves onto the next. We were a big family, she went through us like a wrecking ball. And you know, every time something happened, every time, we had an excuse for why it wasn't her fault. Cuz it's easier to lie to yourself than think bad things about your baby girl. But finally we got to a point where me and Maggy looked at each other - ( remembers so clearly ) - where we looked at each other and we was out of lies, both of us. Most terrifying moment of our lives. And that's where you are now. Emily silently registering this truth.
EDWARD: I'll tell you this. She sees everything. And what she doesn't see she just sort of senses it, like when you call a friend and they pick up before it rings?
EMILY: What does she want?
EDWARD: To know. what your idea of hell is. and make you live there. Emily sits in haunted silence. Edward's features soften.
EDWARD: I'm not a hateful man. I look at you and I wish I could tell you you're through the worst of it. That it's gonna work out for you in the end. I wish I could.
EMILY: What should I do? A pitying smile reveals Edward's wired teeth.
EDWARD: How strong's your faith?
EMILY: Emily, I heard about Doug. I'm so sorry.
NANCY: Emily, I heard about Doug. I'm so sorry.
EMILY: ( NODS )
NANCY: How's it working out with the Sheridan Actually, that's why I'm here. I appreciate what you did for me, Nancy, I really do, but I think it'd be best if she was placed in foster care.
EMILY: Actually, that's why I'm here. I appreciate what you did for me, Nancy, I really do, but I think it'd be best if she was placed in foster care.
NANCY: She is. You're it.
EMILY: I know, but it's not working out.
NANCY: Playing mommy isn't the laugh-a-minute you were hoping, huh?
EMILY: I suppose not. Nancy nods, not entirely surprised.
NANCY: Sorry, you petitioned for custody, you got it. She's your responsibility.
EMILY: Until when?
NANCY: Till we find a suitable foster home.
EMILY: How long is that going to take?
NANCY: You're asking me questions you know the answer to. Three to six weeks. Surely you can manage that long.
EMILY: I don't want her anymore. I'm done. That's it. Nancy grimaces. Scary lady.
NANCY: Now you look. I put my reputation, quite possibly my career, on the line for you. Don't embarrass me. You make this work.
EMILY: How do I make it work if it's not However! Find a way!
NANCY: However! Find a way!
HARDWARE CLERK: That what you're looking for?
EMILY: ( NODS )
LUCY: gets off and comes up the sidewalk toward the house. Sensing Emily's stare, she stops and meets it. Waves, testing the waters. Emily waves back but it's a hollow gesture. Lucy's smile fades, knowing this as she continues toward the house.
LUCY: Emily returns a plastic smile.
EMILY: You weren't there so I took the bus.
LUCY: You weren't there so I took the bus.
EMILY: Sorry, work - lost track of time.
LUCY: It's okay, I know how busy you are. Emily watches unnerved as Lucy crosses to the sofa, to the very pillow where she hid the butcher's knife, and sits down to untie her shoes. The point of the knife is almost touching her leg. If she moves at all, it will cut the skin.
LUCY: Doesn't matter anyway, the bus stops right at the end of the street. So I can always get home, whether you're there or Lucy nods then pauses and looks at the pillow, or appears to, but she is actually looking at the end table.
EMILY: Lucy nods then pauses and looks at the pillow, or appears to, but she is actually looking at the end table.
LUCY: Where's the phone?
EMILY: Oh, it wasn't working. Lucy nods oh. Finishes untying her shoes then gets up and walks into the kitchen, checks the wall, turns to Emily.
LUCY: Wow. That one, too. Emily, caught in a lie, says nothing.
LUCY: Can I have a shower? We had gym today. Emily nods. Lucy heads into the bathroom. Pauses at the door, back turned.
LUCY: Are they being nice to her?
EMILY: My mother. She turns for Emily's reaction.
LUCY: My mother. She turns for Emily's reaction.
EMILY: How - how would I know that?
LUCY: I thought you said you were going to see I never said that. Lucy frowns. A bewilderment that seems genuine.
EMILY: I never said that. Lucy frowns. A bewilderment that seems genuine.
LUCY: Hm. I must have dreamt it. Goes into the bathroom. Closes the door.
EMILY: I don't care, Robin, anywhere. Just find somewhere that will take her. Tonight. I don't want this girl in my house. Emily unplugs the phone. And just then hears a SOFT BREATH behind her. Oh shit. Slowly turns.
FEET: standing just outside her door.
LUCY: Good night.
BARRON: EXT. CHURCH PARK - DAY Sitting on a bench in a park that occupies the shadow of the old stone church, Emily and Mike talk privately. His wife pushing his young son on a playground swing.
EMILY: EXT. CHURCH PARK - DAY Sitting on a bench in a park that occupies the shadow of the old stone church, Emily and Mike talk privately. His wife pushing his young son on a playground swing.
EMILY: `No such thing as a bad kid, only bad parents.' I always believed that. It's a lie. Her parents aren't crazy.
BARRON: You wanna end up where they did keep talking like this. ( off her look ) I'm not judging you. You're grieving for Doug and you're still confused about what Diego did.
EMILY: Aren't you?
BARRON: Diego grew up in a bad home, he saw violence and he repeated it, that's the cycle, you know that better than anyone.
EMILY: Why did she lie about calling him?
BARRON: `Cause she's a liar, that doesn't mean she made him do it. Look, let me tell you what Lucy is. Lucy is a damaged child, a deceitful child, a manipulative child. But a damaged, deceitful, manipulative child is not a demon. Ask my brother-in-law, he's got a couple of Barron stands from the bench.
EMILY: Mike, you know I'm not crazy. Don't run away from something just because it scares you. His concern edges toward sadness. He indicates the church.
BARRON: I stopped you on the steps. I think maybe you oughta go all the way in. Walks off to rejoin his wife and son. Emily alone on a bench in the shadow of a church.
NANCY: Who do you think you are barging in there like that?!
EMILY: I don't want her in group anymore, I don't want her around the other kids.
NANCY: Well that's not your decision, is it?! Emily opens her mouth to reply, but Lucy beats her to the It's okay, Nancy, Emily's been under a lot of stress lately, but she's really nice to me and I hope I can stay with her a really long time. Nancy, disarmed by the glowing praise, turns back to Emily.
LUCY: It's okay, Nancy, Emily's been under a lot of stress lately, but she's really nice to me and I hope I can stay with her a really long time. Nancy, disarmed by the glowing praise, turns back to Emily.
NANCY: We'll talk about this later. Storms off.
LUCY: See you next week, Nancy. Nancy doesn't hear, busily reassuring parents, damage control. Emily and Lucy arrive at the elevator. Emily hits the button.
EMILY: You're never going back there.
LUCY: Why, Emily?
LUCY: Why, Emily? Why, Emily? Why, Emily? DING. The doors open.
LUCY: Why, Emily? Why, Emily? Suddenly the ELEVATOR LURCHES TO A VIOLENT STOP. It buckles Emily's knees. She is terrified, practically W-w-what's happening - ?! Lucy has gotten her attention.
EMILY: W-w-what's happening - ?! Lucy has gotten her attention.
LUCY: Can I go back to group next week?
EMILY: You're never going back there! Lucy looks at her as one regards a small dumb animal. Then looks up at the ceiling.
LUCY: Are you sure? Horror as Emily realizes what she's thinking. We hear the first CABLE SNAP above them. In the CREAKING HUSH that
EMILY: The second CABLE SNAPS. The elevator goes into a HELLISH
DISTINCT: A breathless pause then Emily opens her eyes. And sees the elevator is no longer falling. Never was. The doors glide open to the first floor lobby. Lucy gives her a quiet look and strolls out. A businessman steps into the elevator, watching bewildered as Emily releases her white-knuckled grip on the railing and staggers out, so badly shaken she can barely stand.
LUCY: I can see you.
LUCY: Don't be sad. This is your new INT. EMILY'S CUBICLE - DAY Unopened mail and new case files piling up. Emily looks terrible, phone to ear, getting SCREAMED at, sworn at, interrupted every time she tries to speak.
EMILY: Mrs Lynch, I told you - will you let - that's not what I said - no, I did not - you never sent me the - Mrs Lynch - will you let me respond? - will you let me - Mrs Lynch - will you let - Emily can't take it anymore. She unloads.
EMILY: SHUT THE FUCK UP YOU MISERABLE MISERABLE WOMAN BEFORE I GET IN MY CAR AND COME OVER THERE AND BEAT YOUR ASS LIKE YOU BEAT YOUR SON! I HAVE YOUR ADDRESS! THINK ABOUT THAT NEXT TIME YOU CALL AND SWEAR AT ME! I KNOW WHERE YOU LIVE! Slams the phone down. Sits there looking rather dazed. Wayne arrives, dazed in a different way, having overheard.
WAYNE: Um, so, I notice you haven't taken any personal days. Come on, you look like crap, go home. Emily levels a withering stare.
EMILY: I don't want to go home.
BECCA: INT. BECCA'S APARTMENT - DAY Emily, disheveled, five days without sleep, doing her best to appear rational.
EMILY: I know I haven't been a great friend lately, but. do you think maybe I could crash here for a couple of nights?
BECCA: Sure, when?
EMILY: Tonight and tomorrow. Becca draws air through her teeth, pained by her predicament.
BECCA: Em, any other weekend you know I'd say yes, but I just met this guy and he's coming over tonight like for the night and it might be, you know, kinda weird. Emily nods. And there's nothing more to be said.
EMILY: LEAVE ME ALONE!!! And the POUNDING STOPS DEAD. All we hear is the rain drumming on the roof. And Emily's QUICK TERRIFIED BREATHS as she stares at the door wondering what's next. But there's nothing. Just the shadows dancing on the walls. It appears the nightmare is over for now. But not quite. A sudden CLUNK in the closet makes her jump. Her head snaps around - what was that? She just stares, unable to breathe because whatever she just heard is INSIDE HER ROOM! White-knuckled grip on that screwdriver, Emily stands up and comes slowly over to the CLOSET DOOR. Raises the screwdriver. Ready to stab. Takes hold of the door handle. Slowly turns it. Opens the door. PITCH BLACK inside. A tense pause as she stares into that blackness, then reaches a hand into the closet, feeling around for the pull-string. Finds it. Gives it a tug. And there, right in front of her, is a vision of unspeakable horror:
MARGARET SHERIDAN: Twitching spasmodically in a hospital gown. HIDEOUSLY
EMILY: Help me! Please! The driver meets eyes with her through the door. Keeps reading. Unimpressed. More pounding from Emily.
EMILY: Let me on! The driver points to the sign above the door: OUT OF SERVICE. Keeps reading. Emily near hysterics at this point. Margaret closing in fast.
EMILY: She's coming! Please! The driver sighs, weighing his obligations. Emily spins, back to the door. Margaret nearly upon her, ten feet away, five, four.
EMILY: BUS DRIVER
BUS DRIVER: There's nobody out there.
EMILY: BUS DRIVER
DRIVE!: BUS DRIVER
BUS DRIVER: There - is - nobody - out - there! It sinks in the second time. Emily scans the sidewalk, the darkened streets outside the bus. Margaret is gone. Was never there. The driver opens the door, nods to her - out.
BOYFRIEND: ( re: the office space ) No, I like it. It's like those things they put baby cows in to make veal - The boyfriend slows as they go past a cubicle. Saw something He points. Freaked. Wayne comes over, pokes his head in a head down on her desk, rain-soaked, sleeping in her chair.
WAYNE: He points. Freaked. Wayne comes over, pokes his head in a head down on her desk, rain-soaked, sleeping in her chair.
EMILY: head down on her desk, rain-soaked, sleeping in her chair.
WAYNE: No reply. Wayne's face darkens. Is she dead? He comes over, puts his hand on her shoulder.
WAYNE: She awakens with a jolt. Expecting to see Margaret. She looks terrible.
WAYNE: Jesus - are you okay?
EMILY: ( HOARSE WHISPER )
WAYNE: You look like shit, you need to see a I saw a doctor.
EMILY: I saw a doctor.
WAYNE: What did they say?
EMILY: ( LOSES IT )
EMILY: No reply, but the SQUEAKING CONTINUES. Rising slowly from her seat, scared as hell, she leans over her desk and peers over the partition into the adjacent cubicle. It's empty. But the OFFICE CHAIR IS TURNING as if someone were just playing there. Emily steps slowly back. And now hears the same CYCLICAL SQUEAKING behind her. The opposite row. She spins.
EMILY: No answer. Emily comes slowly down the aisle to the partitioned workstation. A torturous walk set to the RHYTHMIC CADENCE of the photocopier, the HARSH GREEN LIGHT SWEEPING ACROSS THE CEILING ABOVE IT, again and again and again. And then it stops, ejecting one final page as Emily enters the workstation. And sees there's no one there. She stares at the idle machine for a moment, then at the STACK OF COPIES lying upsidedown in the tray. She comes over, picks them up. Turns them over. The first page is a photocopy of a PAIR OF HANDS PRESSED FLAT
EMILY: A ponytailed woman in her mid-forties, the child placement specialist Emily called from home.
ROBIN: What are you doing here so late? I tried calling you. I found someone to take You did?
EMILY: ( STUNNED RELIEF )
ROBIN: Anaheim couple. They've helped us out She shows Emily a custody form with an attached photo:
EMILY: ( under her breath ) Oh God.
ROBIN: What's the matter? Emily stares at the unsuspecting family. Lucy's next victims. She fends off a wave of emotion as the full horror of her predicament hits her. Then, matter-of-factly, facing that fear head-on:
EMILY: I can't. I'm keeping her. As Emily walks off, ripping the custody form to shreds, Robin utterly confused.
EMILY: If I get rid of her, if I put her into the system.
EDWARD: ( NODS YUP )
EMILY: I can't, Edward, I
EDWARD: You have to. You have to find the strength. Don't you understand? That's why she's doing this. To test you. Test your faith.
EMILY: I don't have any faith.
EDWARD: How `bout anger. Got some of that? Emily lowers her gaze to the table.
EMILY: How. how do I.?
EDWARD: Kill her? In her sleep, assuming you Tell you what I'd do different. Count myself dead at the outset. Accept that going in and use it to my advantage. That's the one thing I don't think she'd see coming, someone giving up their own life to take hers. As Emily registers this.
EMILY: ( calls through door ) No reply. A moment of indecision then Emily tightens her grip on the screwdriver and quietly slides open the deadbolts.
THE TELEVISION: Edward's psych interview playing to the empty room. He's straightjacketed, sedated. Talking directly to the camera.
EDWARD: Where is she now? Some family somewhere?
INTERVIEWER: Why does that concern you, Edward?
EDWARD: `Cause you have to warn them. Emily turns off the tv. IMMEDIATELY IT SWITCHES ITSELF BACK ON. Emily freezes, realizing the room is not empty. Turning, she sees Lucy sitting in the shadows holding the remote. Lucy mutes the sound and returns Emily's stare, thoughtful, almost empathetic.
LUCY: I like it here. I like you. You want me to like you, don't you? Emily nods. The room bathed in the tv's flickering blue light. Lucy is quiet for a moment. Then, in her innocently menacing voice, explains the rules:
LUCY: You have to do what I say. If I say I want to go to group, you have to do it. If I say I want a new dress, you have to do it. If I say I want ice cream every day after school, you have to do it. Emily gives a haunted nod, remembering: A FLASHCUT of Lucy sitting between Edward and Margaret at the Child Services meeting, new dress, ribbon in her hair, licking her ice cream with a wicked little smile.
LUCY: They did what I said for a while and then they stopped and started with the secrets. But they weren't really secrets I guess. ( looks at Emily ) .because I always knew what they were She holds Emily's gaze then looks back at the tv. Margaret's image reflected in the pupils of her eerie unblinking eyes.
MARGARET: Don't leave me. Terror in Margaret's voice.
YOUNG NURSE: It's okay, Maggie. I'll check on you The Nurse exits. Locks the door. CLICK-KA-THUNK. The sound of doom to Margaret. She stands up, looking around, trembling at what's to come. Her footsteps sound oddly HOLLOW, METALLIC on the floor.
LUCY'S VOICE: I'm happy you're getting the help you need, daddy. Edward goes berserk. Launches himself across the table at the guy, stabbing him in the neck with his fork. Vicious attack. Unprovoked as far as anyone else is concerned. A guard rushes over. Edward turns on him, maniacal.
BARRON: I know. It's a different Mike Barron than last we saw. Gone is the quiet assurance. Whatever happened rocked him to the core. He closes the door for privacy.
BARRON: There's something I want you to hear. Came in at two o'clock last night. You might wanna sit. Emily sits. Barron cues a voicemail message on his phone, plays it over the speaker. After a BEEP we hear it. A SINISTER MALE VOICE, guttural, taunting, the voice of a
BARRON: You're right. She called Doug. Took me an extra couple of days to get your cell phone records. That's what she's been Grim pause. Emily digs through her bag. Reaches the bottom. No cell phone. Staring into the bag, voice wavering with
EMILY: She's taking me apart, Mike. She loses it for a second. Barron sits in front of her on the edge of the desk.
BARRON: I'm gonna help you get to the bottom of ( re: Edward's photo ) He told me I have to kill her. Barron registers that in silence. Stuns her, and himself, by what he says next.
EMILY: ( re: Edward's photo ) He told me I have to kill her. Barron registers that in silence. Stuns her, and himself, by what he says next.
BARRON: I'll help you. Emily looks at him. Disbelief.
BARRON: Whatever it takes. She hugs him. A godsend.
BARRON: I'm gonna put Beth and Tim in a hotel. Keep her at the house.
DOCTOR: Physically you're fine. How's the I'm not sleeping, I was hoping you could give me something.
EMILY: I'm not sleeping, I was hoping you could give me something.
DOCTOR: Take one of these, you'll sleep. Emily watches the pen scribble.
BARRON'S WIFE: Why won't you tell me what's going on?
BARRON: Because I can't. Kisses her. Turns to his son.
BARRON: Take care of your mom. Musses the boy's hair and leaves.
BANG!: Deafeningly loud, it echoes through the garage like a thunderclap. But the dogs don't move, just sit there Barron lowers his gun. It's time to get the hell out of here. He backpedals, making no sudden movements, gun still trained on the dogs. They watch him, eyes livening with excitement, one of their back legs twitching in anticipation. Barron quickens his step and that's their cue.
EMILY: No reply. She enters. Sees -
EMILY: Oh my God.
KNOTTED RUG: at the foot of Lucy's bed. Emily crosses to it. The BUZZING STOPS. She bends. Takes hold of a corner. Peels it slowly back to reveal
BARE FLOOR: Weird. Nothing there.
BZZZZZZZZZZZZZT! BZZZZZZZZZZZZZZT!: Emily straightens, turns. It's coming from the
BED: As she approaches it the BUZZING INTENSIFIES, louder, more Pauses as she gets there, terrified of what she might find, the bed BUZZING FURIOUSLY FROM WITHIN. Something is trapped under those blankets, waiting for release. Emily extends a trembling hand, takes hold of the blankets and, slowly, rigid with fear, peels them back to reveal
BARE MATTRESS: Impossible, because the BUZZING IS LOUDER THAN EVER. With a tense swallow Emily realizes it's coming from lower, deeper within the bed, between the mattress and the box She slips her fingers into the crack. And slowly lifts the mattress, the BUZZING GROWING FRIGHTENINGLY LOUD as its source is exposed, something hellish waiting for her as she cranes her neck and look to see what lies below -
"INCOMING CALL.": She picks it up. Stares at it vibrating in her hand. Presses the TALK button. Brings it to her ear. The LOW STATIC of an open line. Then, a RASPY MALE VOICE:
EMILY: Who is this.?
EMILY: No. he's.
EMILY: I have to go. Hangs up. On the brink of emotional collapse. Her only confidante dead. Just then she hears BREATHING from behind the open door. Someone or something hiding in that dark corner over there. She crosses to it. Pulls back the door and there sits
LUCY: quiet, innocent, chin on her knees.
EMILY: What did you do to him? Lucy says nothing. Emily grabs her by the arm. Yanks her to her feet.
EMILY: WHAT DID YOU DO TO HIM?! After a moment:
LUCY: He did it to himself. WHACK! Emily slaps her. Hard across the face. Knocks her to the floor. Lucy sits up, lip split. Tastes the blood with her tongue. Hint of a smile. The taste of victory.
LUCY: Europa. Ganymede. Io. Callisto. The moons of Jupiter. We got back our astronomy tests today. It's there on the floor. A++ Well done, Lucy! There's a LOUD BEEP in the other room. Lucy gets up and walks out. Emily watches as Lucy goes into the kitchen. Takes a bag of popcorn from the microwave. Empties it into a bowl. Sits down on the living room sofa and clicks on the tv remote, watching it like nothing ever happened. Emily walks over and pitches the tv onto the floor. The SCREEN SHATTERS.
EMILY: Get out of my house. Lucy, unimpressed, expressionless, takes another handful of popcorn. Chews it. CRUNCH. CRUNCH. CRUNCH. Emily swats the bowl from her hands.
EMILY: GET OUT! Flicking bits of popcorn off herself, Lucy stands up from the sofa. Her face catches the light from the hallway. Emily shudders at the sight. Lucy's features look altered somehow, sharpened. It's subtle, but the overall effect is chilling. THE FACE OF A
GET OUT!: Flicking bits of popcorn off herself, Lucy stands up from the sofa. Her face catches the light from the hallway. Emily shudders at the sight. Lucy's features look altered somehow, sharpened. It's subtle, but the overall effect is chilling. THE FACE OF A
LUCY: Don't yell at me. My mom and dad used to yell at me. Emily backs away, mortified, takes off down the hall.
EMILY: Stay away from me!
EMILY: STAY AWAY FROM ME!! WHAM! The door shudders from a MAMMOTH IMPACT. Last time, it shook the door, this time it shakes the entire wall. Emily recoils, dropping the screwdriver. WHAM! CRACKS APPEAR in the door as it bows from the tremendous force. WHAM!! CRACKS FAN OUT into the plaster around the doorframe. WHAM!! Half the SCREWS HOLDING THE HINGES fly from the wall. WHAM!! The DEADBOLTS BENDING from the ungodly pummeling. WHAM!! The DEADBOLT SCREWS getting yanked from the wood. Emily frozen in terror, watching. Whatever's out there is coming in. WHAM!! One of the DOOR HINGES rips clean from the wall. WHAM!! The FIRST DEADBOLT comes flying off. WHAM!! The SECOND DOOR HINGE gone. WHAM!! ANOTHER DEADBOLT flies off. WHAM!! The DOOR SPLITS down the center. WHAM!! The THIRD DEADBOLT lands on the floor at Emily's feet with a METAL THUD. A breathless silence. Then the DOOR RATTLES and drops loose from the frame with a
LUCY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
LUCY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
LUCY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
EMILY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
LUCY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
EMILY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
LUCY: ( PLAYING MOMMY )
LUCY: Here I come. Emily tries to go backwards, but there's nowhere for her to LUCY'S FACE SLIDING CLOSER LIKE THE HEAD OF A SNAKE. Trapped, Emily screams.
EMILY: WHAT DO YOU WANT?!! Lucy stops crawling. Folds her arms, sets her chin on them. Comfortable here under the bed. Delighting in the question.
LUCY: What you wanted from your mother. I want you to love me.
EMILY: Okay. okay, I will, I will, I promise. Lucy weighs Emily's surrender for a moment. Then, oddly
LUCY: Come tuck me in.
EMILY: Okay. I'll be right there.
LUCY: You better come. Lucy slithers out and we see her feet scamper from the room. Emily puts her head down on the floor and cries, covering her mouth with her hands so she won't make a sound.
LUCY: Emily nods. The face of a loving mother. Lucy brings the cup to her lips, pauses.
LUCY: Maybe you should have it, you look I'll have one later. Lucy considers this, nods okay, takes a sip of tea. Emily picks up a brush and brushes Lucy's hair.
EMILY: I'll have one later. Lucy considers this, nods okay, takes a sip of tea. Emily picks up a brush and brushes Lucy's hair.
EMILY: Tomorrow's our new beginning.
LUCY: I'll be good.
EMILY: I know. Lucy takes a few more sips and sets the tea cup on the bedside table. Emily, tucking her in, gives the cup a nervous glance. Did she drink enough?
EMILY: Get some rest.
LUCY: Say it.
EMILY: I love you.
LUCY: Forever and ever?
EMILY: Forever and ever. Emily kisses her on the forehead. Lucy looks up at her and for a moment she's the little girl Emily met. Innocent, angelic, closing her eyes for sleep. They flutter open one last time.
LUCY: Where are you if I need you?
EMILY: Right down the hall. Lucy's eyes shut. Emily, brushing her hair, staring at the
EMILY: She doesn't move, dead to the world. Or is it a game? Emily closes the door. Leans against the wall, shaking, contemplating her next move. Wedges a chair under the door handle. Time of the essence.
LUCY: Her whole body ablaze. Horrific. She just stands there, arms at her sides, burning. Just now the FIRE MARSHALL crosses to the onlookers. Hollers over the noise and commotion:
FIRE MARSHALL: Everybody get out okay?! Emily wavers, not sure what to say. The Fire Marshall sees her indecision.
FIRE MARSHALL: This your house?! ( she nods yes ) Anybody else inside?! ( off her hesitation ) Emily opens her mouth to reply, but sees something behind her that closes her throat.
LUCY: standing on the sidewalk in her pajamas. Unscathed.
FIRE MARSHALL: Anyone else inside?! Yes or no?! Emily, in shock, shakes her head no. The Fire Marshall rushes off, walkie-talkie squawking. Emily stands frozen as Lucy comes through the crowd to her. More dismayed than That was mean. She takes Emily's hand. Together they watch the house burn. Firelight playing on their faces. The fish bouncing off the glass in the tank at Emily's feet.
LUCY: That was mean. She takes Emily's hand. Together they watch the house burn. Firelight playing on their faces. The fish bouncing off the glass in the tank at Emily's feet.
LUCY: Maybe we can find a hotel with a swimming Emily says nothing. Lucy turns and looks at her, thoughtful, almost empathetic. She draws up her knees and rests her chin on top, levels an appraising stare at Emily like the one she leveled at Doug.
LUCY: It's sad, isn't it? How it gets passed on. How people do to their own kids what their parents did to them. That's why you got the job. Emily turns on the radio, full volume, trying to drown out Lucy's voice. Lucy reaches over and turns it off. CLICK.
LUCY: .To prove to yourself you're not like her, that you're not like your mother. Because that scares you. Scares you more than anything. Lucy, in mock sentiment, puts her hand on Emily's.
LUCY: I love you. even if you don't love me. Emily looks at her, gutted. But defiant. Turning her gaze forward, she tightens her grip on the wheel and calmly, resolutely, JAMS THE GAS PEDAL TO THE FLOOR. The acceleration pitches Lucy backwards into her seat. She sits up, eyes wide, didn't see this coming. A suicide run.
LUCY: What are you doing? Slow down. A tense smile from Lucy. The tables have turned.
LUCY: Did you hear me? Emily stares dead ahead, red-lining the tachometer. Lucy flits her eyes skyward. IMMEDIATELY IT DARKENS AND STARTS TO RAIN. Emily turns on the wipers, speeds on, unfazed.
LUCY: I said slow down! Emily ignores her, going eighty now, weaving through SLOWER TRAFFIC THAT FLIES TOWARD THEM OUT OF THE GRAY HAZE. Lucy, panicking, changes channels like a tv. Innocent child all of a sudden.
LUCY: Please, stop, Emily, I'll be good. Emily ignores her, beyond apology. And Lucy's face sharpens. She points down the road.
LUCY: Look out! Through the heavy rain we see -
LUCY: What are you doing?!
EMILY: It's not real.
LUCY: Yes, it is!
EMILY: Are you scared?!
LUCY: Emily clenches her teeth in anticipation of impact, of death.
STOP!: Emily clenches her teeth in anticipation of impact, of death.
EMILY: ARE YOU SCARED?! She clutches Lucy's wrist.
EMILY: I'M NOT!! Emily jerks the car off the road, crashing through the guardrail. Trees snapping in half across the hood as they go careening through roadside woods and down a steep embankment
I'M NOT!!: Emily jerks the car off the road, crashing through the guardrail. Trees snapping in half across the hood as they go careening through roadside woods and down a steep embankment
UNDERWATER: They stare wide-eyed at one another through the water. Hair swirling around their faces as they sink to the bottom.
PASSERBY: Right through the guardrail, never touched the brakes. Emily goes by on a gurney, semi-conscious, oxygen mask over her face. Paramedics checking her vitals. Loaded into the ambulance, she meets the gaze of Lucy who is being attended to by a female PARAMEDIC, who puts her arm around Lucy in a maternal gesture, shielding her from the sight of Emily as Emily did of the Sheridans.
PARAMEDIC: Don't look at her, okay? Just don't even Lucy nods, the innocent victim. Clinging to her protector as she watches the ambulance take Emily Jennings away.
NEWS REPORTER: A remarkable story of survival this morning as a young girl is pulled from the Los Angeles reservoir in an accident police are calling suspicious.
EMILY: Where is she? Where'd they put her? Foster care? Is she with a family? You have to let me talk to them. She snatches the pen from his hand.
EMILY: Do you hear me?! He looks at her, quietly takes back his pen.
BAILIFF: Emily stands up from the chair she's been sitting in and we see she's wearing an ORANGE LA COUNTY JAIL JUMPSUIT. The man, her public defender, instructs her as they exit:
LUCY: Why can't I live with you?
RETIRED WOMAN: Oh, darling, we're not foster parents, we just help out when the system's full.
RETIRED MAN: They'll contact us, Lucy, when your placement comes through. The woman puts her arm around her as they walk on.
RETIRED WOMAN: Some nice family that always wanted a little girl. Lucy smiles, shy, innocent, quietly taking in the scenery.
CASEWORKER: Going to the thing Saturday?
SUPERVISOR: I don't know.
CASEWORKER: Oh, you should. It'll be fun.
SUPERVISOR: Maybe I will, I don't know. We'll see.
CASEWORKER: Bye, Janey.
SUPERVISOR: See you tomorrow. The Caseworker exits. The Supervisor comes down the row of cubicles dropping files on desks. Alone. After hours. A thankless profession. It lands on some random desk, amid the usual backlog of mail and paperwork. A case file like all the others. The name typed on the label:
