CEDAR RAPIDS: Written by Phil Johnston
BILL KROGSTAD: Ho-lee Christmas, knocked her outta the park, Roger! Out of the G-D park, you sonofagun!
ROGER LEMKE: Hell, I'm just a pretty face, Bill. That copy was all you. Do got one little gripe though, boss if you'd waited until after Cedar Rapids we could've said winner of the Two Diamonds four years BILL KROGSTAD ROGER LEMKE Aroo-aroo! Two Diamonds! Two Diamonds! The men roughhouse playfully. Roger's comely wife, GWEN, 30, holding their milk-fed TWIN TODDLERS, gives Roger a kiss.
GWEN LEMKE: So proud of you, Roggie. God, you rock. Doesn't your dad rock, boys?!
ROGER LEMKE: ( an Elvis impersonation ) Thank you. Thank you very much! More laughter and backslapping. After a bit, an as yet unseen MAN hesitantly approaches. He gently touches Roger's arm, not wanting to interrupt the revelry. Roger turns.
TIM: ( earnest, deeply admiring ) Oh, heck yeah. You were awesome. Despite appearances to the contrary, this is our hero: TIM LIPPE ( pronounced Lippy ), 34, wholesome and positive, though undercurrents of desperation lurk just behind his kind eyes.
ROGER LEMKE: Y'know what Tim, I want people to see the insurance game for what it really is it's a noble field. I believe that. Like I say, we're not just insuring vehicles and homes and that. Hell no. We're insuring people's dreams.
TIM: Oh. Yeah. I say that, too. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
ROGER LEMKE: Well shit, you do, don't you? By god, I stole your line! Knew I'd heard that somewhere!
TIM: Oh, no biggie.
ROGER LEMKE: Bummer they cut your little deal outta the ad, though.
TIM: Ach. Y'know. Got left on the ol'. A FEMALE CO-WORKER interrupts, accosts Roger and ignores Tim.
TIM: The ol' cutting room floor, right? ( upon being ignored ) Brad Pitt. Ha. That's. ( then, with forced nonchalance ) Whoa. Cake. Cool. Tim goes to the cake table. He smiles at the cake, impressed.
TIM: There she is! How you feeling?
MILLIE: Oh, it's no big whoop. Tim pulls the card and Beanie Baby duck from behind his back.
TIM: ( re. the stuffed duck ) Quack, quack. D'you already have this guy? Wasn't sure.
MILLIE: Gayle Syrstäd gave me a Quackers for Secret Santa last year. I can probably trade with Nan, though. Millie sits on Tim's paisley sofa. She opens the card. On the front: a Rottweiler in a nurse's outfit. Inside: "Get Well or You Deal with Me!" Then in Tim's writing, "Love, Tim."
TIM: I know. But for you to miss a day of school, Millie. I can't remember you ever calling in sick when I had you.
MILLIE: Well I wasn't going through menopause when you were in middle school now was I?
TIM: Negative. Not to my knowledge. Not to my knowledge. She nods somberly. They sit there silently for a bit. Then:
TIM: I can try and. hold it, Mil. Can Bring it home. Bring it home. She waggles her hips with a bit more gusto. He grimaces.
MILLIE: Bring it home. Bring it home. She waggles her hips with a bit more gusto. He grimaces.
TIM: I'm bringing it. Bringing it! Bringing it! D'aaaarrgho'awesome. Tim exhales. Millie exhales. That worked out well.
TIM: Ooh, you make me live! You're my best friend!
MILLIE: C'mon Tim, I can't hear.
TIM: Sorry. But you are, babygirl.
MILLIE: Tss. Goofball. The song ends. They sit quietly for a bit.
TIM: ( mediocre Jamaican accent ) Ya mon, Bahama-mama.
MILLIE: It's a little different I suppose a cruise. But. A beat, then Millie removes a cruise brochure from her purse.
TIM: ( SUDDENLY RATTLED )
MILLIE: You've been to the Dells two dozen So? Roger and Gwen Lemke go to the Dells every year.
TIM: So? Roger and Gwen Lemke go to the Dells every year.
MILLIE: Because they have children. Water parks are for children.
TIM: Hello, Tommy Bartlett's Ski, Sky and Stage Show? It's not just a water park.
MILLIE: Timothy, settle. You've never even left the state of Wisconsin. Barely left Brown Valley.
TIM: What's so great about.? You're not. You're missing the. We agreed on the Dells. He avoids eye contact. Millie takes Tim's chin in her hands, forcing him to look at her.
MILLIE: God rest her. Your mom was my best friend. But it's going on 20 years now. You gotta grow up. You gotta let go. You gotta live a life here. I'm living a perfectly fine life. I don't know why you'd want to.
TIM: I'm living a perfectly fine life. I don't know why you'd want to.
TIM: Hello. Oh, hey Bill. A look of profound anguish appears on Tim's face.
WADE: Guy had it all. Everything you'd ever want. Y'know he flew a Cessna? In his spare time?
MILLIE: I always say people like that who live fast? They die hard. Look at River Phoenix.
WADE: Everything you'd ever want.
MILLIE: I just don't know. To do those things to yourself. Just perverted.
TIM: I'm. Gwen, I'm so sorry. Roger is was is a personal hero to me. He just. he had it all. If there's. He is interrupted by Bill Krogstad's sobs. Tim reaches out to put a comforting hand on Gwen's shoulder, but somehow ends up touching her breast instead. A moment.
PAM: You just don't get it, Kurt.
KURT: Aw Christ, Pammy.
TIM: Hang on guys, how's this sound you can both be right. ( pause for effect ) I know you're probably thinking, "Oh, an umbrella policy's only for rich people." You know what I say to that? Bull roar. The Gambskys smile, comforted. Tim is good at his job.
BILL KROGSTAD: Know how Roger used to get down there to Cedar Rapids? To the ASMI Convention? Any idea?
TIM: Um. I'm with Kurt and Pam Gambsky.
BILL KROGSTAD: Flew himself. In a Cessna. Pilot. ( a mournful beat ) It was all worked out. I was going to ease into retirement in July while Roger transitioned into his ownership role.
TIM: Wait, Roger was going to buy All worked out. Shit, Dione already put the down payment on a time share. Branson, Black Hills. Florida. Units all over the place.
BILL KROGSTAD: All worked out. Shit, Dione already put the down payment on a time share. Branson, Black Hills. Florida. Units all over the place.
TIM: Holy cow.
BILL KROGSTAD: Yeah, whole deal. Now? Now I got my back up against Christ-knows-what. No Lemke, no buyer, the wife's spending like we won the goddamn Powerball. And what's worse, because of the way, y'know, the way Roger passed. Krogstad chokes up. His grief is very real. So is Tim's.
TIM: The. belt and the lederhosen.?
BILL KROGSTAD: ( a nod, a sigh ) Quote-unquote perverted, they're saying. Like Northlands has some kind of stain. Oh, I'm so goddamned Is there.? Can I do anything to help, or.? Krogstad hands Tim a Manila folder ( bloodying it in the process ). Tim gestures for his customers to hold tight. Tim opens the folder, reading aloud from a cover page.
TIM: Is there.? Can I do anything to help, or.? Krogstad hands Tim a Manila folder ( bloodying it in the process ). Tim gestures for his customers to hold tight. Tim opens the folder, reading aloud from a cover page.
BILL KROGSTAD: We need those Two Diamonds more than ever, Tim. If I'm going to sell this company, we need people to feel OK about the Northlands ( not getting it ) I'd go myself but my daughter Kayla, the heavy one? She unearthed some Polack to marry her. I'm locked into that wedding over in Gladstone. No flex. Locked in.
TIM: ( not getting it ) I'd go myself but my daughter Kayla, the heavy one? She unearthed some Polack to marry her. I'm locked into that wedding over in Gladstone. No flex. Locked in.
BILL KROGSTAD: I'd go myself but my daughter Kayla, the heavy one? She unearthed some Polack to marry her. I'm locked into that wedding over in Gladstone. No flex. Locked in.
TIM: Whoa-whoa-wait. What are you saying?
BILL KROGSTAD: I'm not asking you to fill Roger Lemke's shoes. Not gonna happen. I'm asking you to deliver his presentation to bring me home those Two Diamonds.
TIM: I can't go to ASMI. To Iowa. To Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Why can't Lila do it?
BILL KROGSTAD: C'mon Tim. Lila's about as charismatic as a bag of hair.
TIM: Bill, I've never. I mean, I've dabbled in hog farm risk mitigation, but I'm no pro. Tim is really starting to panic.
BILL KROGSTAD: You were what, 16, when I gave you that filing job? Right after your mom passed? Raising yourself pretty much, living all alone. And I'm thinking, now here's a kid. Here's a kid who's gonna go places. ( a hand on Tim's shoulder ) And then, somehow, you kind of just didn't. Now, I guess it makes some sense a child loses both parents at an early age, becomes what you might call stunted. But cripes almighty, do you want to just sit there in your folks old house, just rot away in Brown Valley dating . woman the rest of your life?
TIM: Millie and I are getting married.
BILL KROGSTAD: Tss, maybe three'll be a charm. ( then, emotional )
MONTAGE: A melancholic yet uplifting song ( Leonard Cohen's HALLELUJAH, perhaps ) plays as: - Tim puts birdseed in his backyard feeder. He looks at the barren trees as he considers his fate. - Tim Googles "Cedar Rapids." He looks at photos, crime statistics, a Chamber of Commerce Youtube video. He closes his eyes, exhales. - Tim practices the presentation in front of a mirror. He works late. He types. He Power Points. Krogstad critiques. - Tim laminates maps of Cedar Rapids and area attractions. - Tim pulls a dusty American Tourister suitcase from the attic. It looks about 40 years old. He packs.
WADE: Oh, hiya Tim.
TIM: Hey. Wade. Hey. Is Millie.? Millie enters in a terry cloth robe. A Yorkshire Terrier follows her. Millie acts nonchalant. So does the dog.
MILLIE: Hi Tim. ( re. Wade's presence ) Wade's cable's down.
TIM: It's six AM.?
WADE: Oh yeah. Those guys. Hilarious. Ha.
TIM: Oh yeah. Those guys. Hilarious. Ha.
WADE: ( finally, to Millie ) Well I just wanted to. He displays the Beanie Baby and the card. She takes them with a cold smile. Tim notices an identical stuffed rooster on an oak bookshelf home to over 155 other Beanie Babies.
TIM: ( finally, to Millie ) Well I just wanted to. He displays the Beanie Baby and the card. She takes them with a cold smile. Tim notices an identical stuffed rooster on an oak bookshelf home to over 155 other Beanie Babies.
MILLIE: So this is it then?
WADE: That right?
TIM: It's only four days.
MILLIE: Won't go to Germany for our honeymoon, but for work you can just gallivant around like Tom Petty or one of them?
TIM: ( TO WADE )
WADE: Oh it don't bother me. Tim tries to proceed as if Wade weren't sitting there.
TIM: If I don't try to do this, it's not just my job, Mil. There are four other employees whose lives are on the line. Plus Carol, who does part time seasonal work. So.
MILLIE: It's not for certain a new owner would even keep you guys on.
TIM: No, Bill said he'd make that part of any deal.
MILLIE: Believe you me, Bill Krogstad is looking out for one guy. And that's Bill Krogstad.
WADE: ( OVERTLY DISPARAGING )
TIM: It's. Oh, who am I kidding, I'm a little scared here. A lot scared. But not about us. What we've got we're like lightning in a bottle, babygirl. I love you so much, Mil. He hugs her. Millie melts just a little, yet remains stern.
MILLIE: I want you to be very careful.
TIM: I know. I will. I mean, Cedar Rapids there were only four homicides last year. For a city of 122-thousand that's pretty darn good. The forcible rape numbers are admittedly a bit higher, but. She fidgets with his tie. A bitter tear skulks down her cheek.
MILLIE: I want you to check in with me.
TIM: I will every day. Twice a day.
MILLIE: Make it three times.
TIM: ( LAUGHS )
RETARDED MAN: Airport don't open for two hours.
TIM: Thanks! Just wanna be sure I make my flight. Going down to Cedar Rapids. The big ASMI Convention? The retarded man nods vacantly and goes back to shoveling.
TIM: Cold enough for you? I'm heading to Cedar Rapids. Supposed to be up in the mid-30s down there. S-weet!
TSA AGENT: Any liquids, gels or aerosols must be placed in a quart-size Zip-Lock. Laptop computers must be taken out of the case and placed in.
TIM: Whoa. what's all this now?
TSA AGENT: Any liquids, gels or aerosols.
TIM: Hey Bill, what's going on?
BILL KROGSTAD: Can't believe I forgot to get this to you. Hang on, lemme. Krogstad puts his hands on his knees, takes a few deep breaths. Then he hands Tim a detailed handwritten checklist.
TIM: Dean Ziegler, Stevens Point.
BILL KROGSTAD: Ziegler is a cancer. Sonofabitch called one of Lemke's biggest clients Joyce Armbrüster? Smeared Roger's name and the Northlands' name. Frickin' poacher. Avoid Ziegler like the plague. The fella I got you rooming with, Ronald Wilkes that's who you stick by.
TIM: Tim untucks his shirt, revealing a zippered cummerbund-like money belt.
BILL KROGSTAD: Hey-hey! That kind of prep is pure Lemke! Didn't know any better, I'd say Roger's spirit had kind of climbed into you, just planted its seed inside you there. Atta boy! High praise indeed. Tim hesitates. Is now the right time?
TIM: Bill. I have to ask. Let's say one of these big dogs your Allstates, your Prudentials does decide to go and buy Northlands.?
BILL KROGSTAD: Said it before, I'll say it again: Your job, the office in Brown Valley all safe. What you need to worry about is getting down there and representing us the best you can. That's all you need to worry Tim swallows hard. Bill brings it in for a hug and inhales Tim's hair.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: You lucky ducks are obviously seated in an exit row. Score!
TIM: You're talking what, water landing? ( looks around, whispers ) Terror type deal? Terrorists.?
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: It's really just a formality.
TIM: Believe it or not, I have actually never been on an airplane before.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Oh, well you'll do awesome.
TIM: ( takes a moment ) OK. If you need any help, I'm in. The flight attendant smiles politely, if confusedly.
TIM: Tim Lippe.
MAN: Ah. David Marinakis. They shake hands.
TIM: Great to meet you, Dave. Wondering, what kind of name is Marinakis?
DAVID MARINAKIS: Greek. It's Greek.
TIM: Marinakis. OK. Mine's German. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
TIM: Like I say, Dave, it's not life insurance so much as it is dream It's a good way of looking at it.
DAVID MARINAKIS: It's a good way of looking at it.
TIM: I think so. Tim hands David his card, who takes it with a genuine smile.
DAVID MARINAKIS: Will do, Tim. Thanks. David exits. Tim stands there waving.
TIM: Hello. Score! As he approaches the car, he stops. He chuckles, in awe.
BREE: Hey man, can I bum a heater?
TIM: What's that now?
BREE: A cigarette?
TIM: Oh, I'm like, "this gal wants to borrow my heater?" Tss. But no, sorry, can't help you there.
BREE: You here for the convention?
TIM: You bet. Tim Lippe. Northlands Insurance. How `bout yourself?
BREE: Ah, Bree. I'm Bree. They shake hands.
TIM: Well Bree, it's nice to meet you. But let me give you a trade secret.
BREE: Thanks Mr. Surgeon General. ( they laugh, then )
TIM: You bet. Party hearty. Nice chatting with you, Bree. People are so friendly. Tim enters the hotel.
TRENT: Checking in with us, sir?
TIM: You tell me. Never done the hotel deal before.
TRENT: Well, welcome. I'll just need to see a credit card for the incidentals.
TIM: ( reads the name tag ) Trent, I was given the impression that you honored traveler's checks.
TRENT: Yes, we just need an imprint of your card. For the incidentals.
TIM: Traveler's check is a fully insured method of, y'know. 100 percent.
TRENT: I'm aware of that, sir. We won't charge the card unless you rent a movie or take something from the I'm a non-drinker.
TIM: I'm a non-drinker.
TRENT: It's standard, sir.
TIM: Not yet, but I can smell it. The chlorine. It's a super top-notch place, Mil. You'd be blown away. Oop, 321. I'm at mi casa. Just a. lemme see how this deal works. He examines the card key. He slides it in. It doesn't work. Tries again. Doesn't work. Each time he fails, it beeps.
TIM: ( to the man ) Oh jeez. I'm sorry. I'm. Please. ( turns, whispers into phone ) There's an Afro-American gentleman in this room.
BLACK MAN: Are you Tim? Tim Lippe? Tim just smiles a wide, deer-in-headlights smile.
TIM: ( INTO PHONE )
RONALD: You are Tim.?
TIM: Um. Yeah. Yes. You bet. For a minute there I was like, whoa, I'm gonna be robbed here, or. Tim laughs loudly. Ronald just looks at Tim. A beat.
RONALD: OK. You want to check out the room INT. JUNIOR SUITE - CONTINUOUS Ronald leads Tim into the room, a junior suite with two beds, a kitchenette and a couch in the separate living room area.
TIM: Check out these digs. Huzzah!
RONALD: Yeah, you could do a lot worse. ( a serious beat ) Look Tim, I gotta put the cards on the table here. The reason we got the junior suite upgrade is because the hotel overbooked wedding or some such. Point being, they were asking folks to take on a third roommate to consolidate space. Now to me, being an independent owner, the savings of adding a third guy sounded like a real positive.
TIM: No. I'm down. Down with that. Heck yeah. Any idea who we're gonna be chilling with, roommate-wise?
RONALD: No. Just hope he doesn't snore.
TIM: ( LAUGHS BOISTEROUSLY )
RONALD: This isn't Woodstock, Tim. It's a regional insurance convention. Whoever it is, I'm sure he'll be a straight shooter.
RONALD: So far it's just the one billboard north of St. Cloud. Course the traffic load would get me more eyeballs in the Twin Cities corridor, but at the end of the day, it's N-T- S. Not Too Shabby.
TIM: Ha. N-T-S. That's hilarious. I'd love to own my own agency. The door bursts open. We boom up from the scuffed wing-tips to reveal DEAN ZIEGLER, 45, whose massive personality just barely hides an undercurrent of sadness and insecurity.
DEAN: Baroo-baroo, let's get this party started you mother-rubbers! Ronald deflates upon seeing Dean. He clearly knows him.
RONALD: Turn down the volume, Ziegler. You just got here, for Pete's sake. Tim looks like someone deciding which direction to run from an oncoming tornado. Dean notices Tim's look.
DEAN: What's the matter, friend, never seen a chocolate-vanilla love sandwich?! Wait until later when we get to the buttfucking! Nah, I'm having fun. Dean Ziegler. Stevens Point, Wisconsin. Tim discreetly looks at the checklist Krogstad gave him. Under AVOID, it says DEAN ZIEGLER.
RONALD: We drew the short straw with this pitiful reprobate, Tim. Dean, this is Tim Lippe.
DEAN: Call me Deanzie. Where you hail from, Tim Lippe? Quiet-land?
TIM: No. I do not. I'm down from Brown Valley, Wisconsin.
DEAN: Bill Krogstad's outfit. The Krogger! ( beat, dials it way down ) Aw shit. I was sorry as hell to hear about Lemke's passing up there. That guy was tits as a rep. Course he thought I was a big, loud asshole s'pose he wasn't too far off there. No boy, a real tragedy.
TIM: ( SUSPICIOUS )
DEAN: Amen. He'll be in my prayers. His family, too. Tragedy. All three nod. A moment of solemn silence. Then:
RONALD: That line was unappealing last year, Dean. It remains so now.
TIM: I'm planning to watch President Helgesson's opening remarks.
DEAN: Oh, don't get me started on that smug fuck. Orin Helgesson is a pardon my French a cunt. Just a steaming wet dog cunt. Tim stands there slack-jawed this man is evil.
RONALD: No one's buying the potty-mouth nonsense you're selling, Dean. Tim, you'll learn to ignore this degenerate before too long. Let's go hear what Orin has to say.
DEAN: Fine. Have fun ladies. Not. Tim and Ronald exit. Dean can't handle the momentary silence. As he lugs his suitcase into the bedroom:
ORIN: I'm Orin Helgesson, your ASMI Midwest Region Chapter President. But I'm not going to make you play Hail to the Chief. Not yet anyhow. Polite laughter from the 60 or so mostly male INSURANCE WORKERS congregated in the Sunset Terrace Ballroom, which has neither a terrace nor a window through which to view a sunset.
MIKE PYLE: In the beige sweater vest. Great. Orin continues O.S. but we stay with Tim and Ronald.
ORIN: In the beige sweater vest. Great. Orin continues O.S. but we stay with Tim and Ronald.
TIM: ( WHISPERING )
RONALD: Oh, Dean ran for President against Orin last year only got four votes. He's running again this year. He's just full of bluster. Tim looks deeply concerned. Back on Orin.
ORIN: . The Two Diamonds are given every year to the agency that best exemplifies the ASMI decree: "To provide high quality insurance services and related products while maintaining Commitment to Community, Country and God." We have a record number of entries this year over 15 agencies competing. Good luck to you all. Tim eyes go wide Did he say over 15 agencies?!
TIM: Did he say over 15 agencies?
RONALD: Yeah, it's gonna be brutal this year. I brought my A-game though.
TIM: You're competing?
RONALD: Heck yeah. It's the first year I've ever had a real shot. But the guy you really have to worry about is Mike Pyle. He owns the sixth largest Allstate agency in the Upper Midwest. The guy's a shark. Tim looks at Mike Pyle, the bland-looking man in the sweater vest. Tim's confidence is waning. Back on Orin:
ORIN: . moment of silence for the man many considered to be the Michael Jordan of Mutual Insurance Agents. Roger Lemke. Orin places a 4 x 6 foot poster of Roger Lemke on an easel. A period of mournful reflection follows. Until Orin breaks out in song WERE YOU THERE?, a somber hymn.
TIM: I need to talk to you, Mil. I'm in over my head here. I feel like I can't even swim. It was fun at first, but now it's like, I dunno. I need you so bad, babygirl. A man's voice picks up on the other end.
TIM: Who's.? Wade?
TIM: Are.? You're at Millie's still?
TIM: Um. Yes, please. And just, would you tell her I love her very much.
WOMAN: You were checking me out. Mortified, Tim drops the weights. They crash to their base.
TIM: I. Ma'am, no. I'm sorry if you. I wouldn't. I have a fiancé!
WOMAN: Unbelievable. That poor woman should know what you're up to.
TIM: No, no, no, please. I didn't. The woman can't keep it in. She starts laughing.
WOMAN: I am so sorry. I'm totally messing with you. God, I'm a jerk.
TIM: Ha. OK. That was different. Ha. Yes. Yes you are. A real. I'm so sorry. Joan Ostrowski-Fox. JOAN OSTROWSKI-FOX, middle-management sexy, if slightly too tan, puts out her hand. Tim shakes it.
WOMAN: I'm so sorry. Joan Ostrowski-Fox. JOAN OSTROWSKI-FOX, middle-management sexy, if slightly too tan, puts out her hand. Tim shakes it.
TIM: Tim Lippe.
JOAN: Don't get lippy with me, mister. Whoa. Tim is taken aback by this. Joan notices Tim's outfit.
TIM: No I don't. I'm actually in town for the ASMI convention.
JOAN: Oh, is that where a bunch of guys sit around a table looking up the word "gullible" in a dictionary?
TIM: No, it's an association of insur. Oh. You're screwing with me again.
JOAN: Indeed I am. I'm here for ASMI, too. In from Oh-my-god, Nebraska. Just kidding Omaha. ( wipes off some sweat ) Ugh, I am gross, so I'm going to bid you farewell, Tim Lippe. See you at Horizons tonight?
TIM: Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
JOAN: Unless you were planning on spying on me in the shower. Tim reddens, once again going into panic mode. Joan laughs.
ORIN: How ya doin'?
TIM: Oh. I. OK.
ORIN: You were in there? Marvelous. Did you like the part about E-Commerce?
TIM: You bet. Very much, sir.
ORIN: Terrific. It's the future y'know. Anyhow, I don't think we've.
TIM: Tim Lippe. Down from Brown Valley, Wisconsin. Northlands Insurance? A flash of emotion maybe even anxiety on Orin's face.
ORIN: Whew boy. Tim, what can I say? I just we're all feeling it. I'm so sorry for the loss. Orin puts a supportive hand on Tim's shoulder.
TIM: Um, well, it's rough. Real rough. Like you said in your remarks, Roger wasn't just a great rep, he was a good father and.
ORIN: And a pilot. Flew a Cessna.
TIM: Yeah. It's just rough.
ORIN: Come here, son. Orin gives Tim a hug. Tim juts his butt out so that their penises don't touch. A JANITOR enters the locker room, sees this odd embrace, pauses a beat and hurriedly exits.
TIM: Thank you. The embrace runs its course. Tim isn't sure where to look.
ORIN: Tim, I know Bill's looking to retire and from the sound of it he's on the hook for a pretty sweet time share.
TIM: Yeah, it sounds pretty top-notch.
ORIN: I want to help him find a buyer, and God knows I'll try my darnedest. But and it pains me to say this there's a petition going around trying to rescind all of Northlands' Two Diamond Awards.
TIM: I know. But let's be honest, one of the core tenets of the Two Diamonds is Commitment to God. And the way Roger passed on. well, some folks are saying that type of activity isn't entirely "godly." Tim shakes his head, disbelieving.
ORIN: I know. But let's be honest, one of the core tenets of the Two Diamonds is Commitment to God. And the way Roger passed on. well, some folks are saying that type of activity isn't entirely "godly." Tim shakes his head, disbelieving.
TIM: Thank you President Helgesson.
ORIN: Please. Orin. And if you need anything, Tim I mean anything I'm up in the Tiffany Suite. Room 411. Balcony overlooks the pool. Tim accepts the stack of drink tickets. He's scared shitless.
TIM: Hello Dean.
DEAN: It's Deanzie, c'mon. ( shouts at bartender ) Ahoy Cap'n, we got a thirsty sailor over here!
BARTENDER: What can I getcha?
TIM: Ah. Do you guys have root beer?
DEAN: You want a nipple with that?
TIM: Ah, why would I need a nipple.?
DEAN: Ach, I'm busting your balls. You don't get out much, do you buddy? ( spots Tim's drink coupons ) Whoa, who'd you have to blow to get all those?
TIM: I didn't. Nobody. President Helgesson gave them to me.
DEAN: Smug fuck. Trying to poison my roommate with his B-S propaganda.
TIM: I really don't. Orin, President Helgesson, he wanted to help me meet people. Just being friendly.
DEAN: ( softens, fatherly ) Wow-wow-wow, you are naïve. A rail cocktail's, what, four bucks? Times that by 10 drink coupons. We're talking 40 large, Tim. Doesn't sound so friendly anymore, does it? Sounds more like one of these I-scratch- your-back-you-scratch-mine deals. ( off Tim's confused look ) I bet ol' Orin invited you up to the Tiffany Suite, too, hmm? Fourth floor? View of the pool? Yup. ( leans in, conspiratorial ) Cocksucker's buying your vote, pal.
LATER: Lubricated INSURANCE WORKERS are now singing karaoke. Orin and Mike Pyle, the sweater vest guy, sit at a table in back. Orin looks at Tim with concern as Dean regales him.
DEAN: So Big Time Tim, what're you looking for pussy-wise here in Cedar CRAPids?
TIM: Ah, that would be nothing. Tim displays a photo of Millie ( a portrait from the junior high where she teaches ) in his wallet.
DEAN: That your mom?
TIM: No. No it is not. Millie and I are engaged. To be married.
RONALD: You're married yourself, Ziegler. The heck's your moral compass?
DEAN: My moral compass is pointing true north, if you read me. Right Taco Taco Bill sighs and wanders off to get a drink.
RONALD: Oh jeez. You and Patti split? Sorry to hear that.
DEAN: ( barely covering the pain ) Ah, she's a fucking asshole.
RONALD: ASMI isn't a vacation for everybody, Dean. End of the day, Tim's here to work and to win. For his agency.
TIM: Exactly. And P-S, I would never, ever have "relations" or whatever with another woman. As fate that wily minx would have it.
RONALD: Joan Ostrowski-Fox.
DEAN: The O-Fox! Joan does an ironic, flirtatious curtsy.
JOAN: Here she is, Miss America.
RONALD: You fly in from Omaha, Joan?
JOAN: Yup. And boy are my arms tired. Ronald giggles, more animated than we've seen him.
DEAN: ( does a bad Austin Powers ) Oh yeah baby. Shag-a-licious! They laugh. Tim stares ahead, wishing for invisibility.
TIM: Hey. Ha. From the fitness center.
JOAN: Hey! It's Tim "don't get lippy with me" Lippe.
RONALD: You guys met?
JOAN: Oh yeah, and I was very naughty in there. I'm sorry about that, Tim.
DEAN: No she's not.
JOAN: No I'm not.
DEAN: Oh yeah, Jaeger time!
RONALD: Oh what the heck. Drambuie.
JOAN: Oh, I don't, ah. The peer pressure! Tim scans the liquor behind the bar, settles on a bottle that looks impressive.
TIM: Oh, I don't, ah. The peer pressure! Tim scans the liquor behind the bar, settles on a bottle that looks impressive.
JOAN: Careful you don't get too loaded, Lippe, or I might have to take advantage of you. Joan squeezes Tim's thigh. Tim bolts off of his stool.
TIM: It's been a super long day. I, ah, better. Good night. Tim awkwardly leaves the bar. Dean nudges Joan.
DEAN: ( sings Hall Whoa-o here she comes she's a man As Tim hurries out of the bar, Bree, the woman in the denim skirt who Tim met outside enters. She's locking arms with a stout INSURER, 49. Tim pauses long enough to say hi.
TIM: Hello Bree.
BREE: ( VAGUELY SEXY )
MILLIE: Marlene's brother's back in the hospital, so bridge got canceled. So we just watched hockey.
MILLIE: Me and Wade.
TIM: MILLIE ( O.S. ON PHONE ) He says hey.
TIM: Oh. Tell him hey.
TIM: I have to do some work before bed, MILLIE ( O. S. ON PHONE ) Well I should let you go.
TIM: No, it's I love you so bad, babygirl. It's so hard here. I just miss you.
TIM: Tss. Yeah, yeah. Keep reminding me.
TIM: OK. You, too. I love you.
TIM: Current risk mitigation mechanisms available to hog farm operations include futures and options to. The bathroom door opens. It's Deanzie. Tim shrieks.
DEAN: ( WHISPERING )
TIM: What the heck is going on here?
DEAN: You sound like my fuckin' wife, Timbo. Jesus. Ex, I should say. EX. Dean sits heavily on the cement stairs. He hiccups, burps. Tim looks at Dean with a feeling that borders pity.
TIM: Are you drunk?
DEAN: Fuck yeah! ( calms himself, whispers ) Fuck yeah. But we didn't get to finish our little confab back at the bar. I figured some shit out.
TIM: We're not close.
DEAN: Close enough. You're voting for me for President, right?
TIM: No I'm not.
DEAN: Well anyway, there's a petition going around trying to take away your company's Two Diamond Awards.
TIM: I know. I heard.
DEAN: Well hear this: After you left the bar, Mike Pyle comes up to me Pyle of shit, I call him and he asks do I want to sign this thing. And I go, "Lemke might have been a class-A deviant, but the guy was tits as a rep."
TIM: Pardon my French, Dean, but that's a bunch of bull roar. My boss, Bill Krogstad? He told me how you called up Joyce Armbrüster and smeared Roger's name all over town.
DEAN: Joyce who.? Oh, no-no-no, whoa- whoa-whoa, that old whore called ME. Harping about Lemke being a pervert and how she wants to take her business elsewhere. So I says, "OK, I'll run some numbers." Well, she calls back later that same day, says she got Krogstad to lower her premium. Which is all the greasy twat wanted in the first place.
TIM: So wait, you didn't call her?
DEAN: I may be a lot of things, but poacher ain't one of `em. Tim lets this sink in. Dean hiccups and burps again.
TIM: So what's with this petition?
DEAN: Personally? I think Mike Pyle of Shit started the thing as a way to drive down the price of your agency. Dollars to donuts he wants to swoop in and pick up Northlands at a bargain basement price. And you know what else I think? I think Orin's in on the deal somehow. What? That's impossible.
TIM: What? That's impossible.
DEAN: I can't quite figure it myself, but I know what I know. And what I know is you're wading into some duvious, er dubious, shit. Just be careful. Tim looks shell-shocked. What a long, long day it's been.
ORIN: . In Your Name we pray Lord Jesus, Son of God, Author of our Salvation, our Redeemer, our Truth. Amen. Amen. The gathered INSURERS head to the breakfast buffet.
RONALD: Orin knows how to lead a prayer breakfast, tell you what.
TIM: Hmm.? Oh. Yeah.
RONALD: Little overwhelming? All this?
TIM: Hello, thank you. I feel like my head is gonna like. ( makes explosion face ) Oh I hear ya L I was the same way when I first came to ASMI. The deciding which break-out sessions to attend, plus the politics, the pressure, the not knowing who to trust. Orin catches Tim's eye, gives him a friendly wink. Just then, Tim's phone rings. He looks at the caller ID.
RONALD: Oh I hear ya L I was the same way when I first came to ASMI. The deciding which break-out sessions to attend, plus the politics, the pressure, the not knowing who to trust. Orin catches Tim's eye, gives him a friendly wink. Just then, Tim's phone rings. He looks at the caller ID.
TIM: Excuse me, Ronald. It's my boss.
BILL KROGSTAD: Tim. Bill Krogstad. Got a call from Orin Helgesson. Tells me he's worried about you. Tells me you're palling around with Dean Ziegler. Laughing at his jokes, buying him TIM ( O.S. ON PHONE ) I. No.
BILL KROGSTAD: What's the ONE thing I told you to do? The one thing, Tim? Steer clear of Dean Ziegler. GODDAMNIT, you're lousing the whole thing up!
DIONE KROGSTAD: BILL KROGSTAD
BILL KROGSTAD: Not now Dione.
TIM: Bill, I. That Dean Ziegler he was trying to warn me about Orin.
TIM: Bill, I'm sorry.
BILL KROGSTAD: I sent you to ASMI to restore our image, Tim. One day into the deal you're lousing the whole thing up!
DIONE KROGSTAD: You're not driving to Iowa, Bill. This is your daughter's wedding.
BILL KROGSTAD: Oh cripes, you know as well as I do that Polack's gonna head for the hills the second he gets his papers. But no, you want to end up in the poor house, Dione, we'll go. Let's just keep on cashing checks we don't have.
DIONE KROGSTAD: We are going to our daughter's wedding, Bill.
TIM: I didn't know I did anything wrong.
JOAN: I'm a very bad girl. But I swear I only smoke in Cedar Rapids. Care for a Virginia Slim, Lippe?
TIM: Mm, I don't know. Only everything. Joan gives him a kind, gentle smile.
TIM: He didn't have to yell at me. I didn't do anything wrong. I'm trying my hardest.
JOAN: D'you want me to kick his butt?
TIM: Could you?
JOAN: Absolutely. I know Krogstad. I could take him. `Sides, I'm a ninja. A nin- jette, actually. Hoo-waaaah!
TIM: You are freaky. ( laughs, then ) No, it's kind of weird how I got interested in insurance, actually. When I was six, my dad got killed in a sawmill accident.
JOAN: Oh my God.
TIM: Yeah. Not good. But after he died, our insurance agent fought like a tiger against the sawmill to make sure me and my mom were taken care of. And we were.
JOAN: No way. Really?
TIM: He had just opened Northlands. Anyway, I remember thinking, this guy's a hero. A real hero. So even if he doesn't always treat me, like y'know. whatever now I'll never forget that. Tim jumps off the swing, taking care not to slip in the snow. Joan jumps off. They walk toward the river, silent for a bit.
JOAN: I remember that. Massive disaster.
TIM: People talk about the firemen and policemen and that. But think about all the claims in a disaster like that how hard those agents worked to make sure people's lives weren't left in the lurch. We're talking billions of dollars in damages, literally. And claim by claim, dream by dream, those agents helped rebuild this city. I'm telling you, it's a noble calling. I really believe that.
JOAN: You realize you just made it sound cool to be an insurance salesman? You are a hero, Lippe.
TIM: Tss. I wish.
JOAN: No, I can tell. You're the Superman type. Kind of dweeby on the surface but a real frickin' stud underneath. They'd call you Insurance Man put a big red "I" on your chest.
TIM: Well, even if you're being full of it, thanks for saying that anyway.
JOAN: Well, you're welcome.
DEAN: I'm saying a Bridge to the 22nd Century is a stupid theme, Helgesson. Not a goddamn one of us is even going to be alive in the 22nd Century.
ORIN: Oh, and I suppose under a Dean Ziegler administration, we'd just abandon E-Commerce and all that, huh? What's your take, Ronald?
RONALD: End of the day, you know I'm a big supporter of yours, Orin.
DEAN: Stab me in the fucking back why don't you, Wilkes.
RONALD: Why would I stab you in the back, Dean, when I'm telling you to your face that I think you'd be a lousy Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09 That deflates the tension. The three men are laughing as Tim approaches. Dean spots him first.
DEAN: Timbo! Sorry about that gigantic boner I got while we were spooning. Tim freezes, looks at Orin.
TIM: We didn't spoon, Orin.
ORIN: To each his own, Tim. ( gives Tim a kind wink ) I'm teasing, of course. Well, I gotta run to an Executive Council meeting. You fellas really ought to check out Mike Pyle's Prop/Cas Pyle of shit.
DEAN: Pyle of shit.
ORIN: Mike's a dynamite orator. I think you'd enjoy it. We'll see ya. Orin walks away.
DEAN: Smug fuck. ( then, to Tim & Ronald ) So who's ready for a drink?
RONALD: It's 11 in the morning.
DEAN: ( MIMICS )
TIM: You need to leave me alone. Dean and Ronald watch curiously as Tim practically runs away.
MIKE PYLE: I'd like to share a humorous anecdote. A gentleman is drowning in a lake or pond, and he's 20 feet offshore. Well, along comes an actuary. And this actuary sees the drowning gentleman and throws him an 11 foot rope. And the gentleman says, "But I'm 20 feet offshore!" And the actuary says, "Well, I'm meeting you MORE than halfway." The room busts up laughing. Tim takes notes.
TIM: VOICE ( O.S. ON PHONE ) Herro Mr. Tim, my name Chin Chang. There bad news about your fiancé.
TIM: Millie? Something happened.?
DEAN: Timbo! Turn around! Tim turns, sees Dean. A torrent of anger rises. Tim charges at Dean. He shoves him. Dean is a much larger man and is therefore impervious to Tim's inelegant, girlish assault. Despite the low-key nature of the melee, it draws the attention of Trent, the desk clerk.
TRENT: Gentlemen! I will call security. Tim deflates. He gives Dean one more shove. Dean laughs.
TIM: What the H did I ever do to you, you a-hole. Tim walks away. Dean calls after him.
DEAN: Come on bud, I was having fun.
TIM: I just wanted to hear your voice.
TIM: Nothing. Nothing really.
TIM: MILLIE ( O.S. ON PHONE ) Patti told me Lucy's seeing some guy who doesn't even go to church, so she apparently feels no need to maintain her responsibil. Brandy! No! She's going number two on the floor! No! You get outside! I'll call you later, Tim. He hangs up. He exhales. He looks out the window: An Applebee's. A Super Target. Traffic on the distant interstate. Something is bubbling in Tim maybe not cauldron of lava; more like a cup of soup left in the microwave a bit too long. But still, there's a boiling, churning glow behind his eyes.
TIM: I'd like to sign up for the scavenger hunt.
WOMAN: Super. Teaming with a co-worker or are you in need of a partner? ( off Tim's look ) This is a team event, like the Amazing Race. On TV? But instead of going around the world, you look for stuff in Cedar Rapids. And instead of a million dollars, the winning team gets a $75 gift card for Westdale, which is.
TIM: Eastern Iowa's largest two-story mall. I know. Sweet. ( a thought, a moment ) And yes, I do have a teammate.
RONALD: Everything OK?
JOAN: Yeah, what was that call?
TIM: Oh, nothing. Say Joan, you have something on your blouse. Joan looks down at her blouse. Tim flicks her chin.
JOAN: ( LAUGHS )
TIM: ( bad Elvis impersonation ) Thank you. Thank you very much.
JOAN: Really? Why?
TIM: Uh, well I. Because Ronald already had a teammate.
RONALD: Bill Hernandez?
JOAN: Taco Bill.
TIM: . And I thought you'd we'd be y'know, a decent team. So. ( then, firm ) I think you should do it.
JOAN: Heck yeah! I get to be Insurance Man's sidekick. We're going to kick some ASS! A few PEOPLE look curiously at Joan. Tim stands up a bit straighter. This is good. This is good.
ORIN: Like last year there'll be a few physical challenges.
TIM: ( TO JOAN )
JOAN: ( WHISPERS )
ORIN: Course this should be considered a fun event, in the spirit of team building. You can find your first clue "under the sea." By which I mean in the pool area. So ready, set, race! As the teams take off for the pool, Dean enters. Tim pauses long enough to say:
TIM: You're going down, a-hole. Just then, Dean's partner, a MAN in an electric wheelchair, PERRY KUHN, 29, rolls in. They high five and whoo-hoo.
DEAN: Let's roll, Perry Perry-plegic. Get it, like paraplegic? But.
PERRY: Yeah. Good one, Dean-tard. Like retard, but Dean-tard. Get it? Dean laughs as he and Perry follow the other contestants.
TIM: Check it out Planet X! Tim unzips his hidden cummerbund/money belt. He pulls out a small laminated packet, held together with metal rings.
JOAN: Ooh, that's hot.
TIM: ( flips through his packet ) . Maps, area attractions, crime stats, local customs.
JOAN: Look at you.
TIM: Bingo! Right here Planet X Family Fun Center. Let's go. Act natural. Joan cracks up. They walk out casually. For good measure:
JOAN: What a gyp. There are no stinkin' clues in here.
TIM: OK, I think we're going to want to take Blair's Ferry Road to Avenue C, then probably east on 100.
JOAN: Why would you possibly know that?
TIM: I memorized the major thoroughfares and landmarks in the metro area. Rather than say anything, Joan just shakes her head and turns on the radio. GROOVE IS IN THE HEART kicks in, providing a:
TIM: ( READS MESSAGE )
DEAN: Know what that cow's thinking, Pyle? She's thinking, "quit pulling on my tits and fuck me already." - IN A PARKING LOT: Dean loads Perry into a handicap- accessible van as Mike Pyle and his partner blow past them. - AT THE IOWA PORK SHRINE: Joan gobbles down hot dogs in a speed eating contest. Tim cheers her on.
JOAN: Ugh. I'm gonna puke.
TIM: No, you're doing great, Joan. And you look super awesome with a wiener in your mouth.
JOAN: ( stunned, mouth full ) Oh my God, did you just make a dick joke, Lippe?
TIM: ( giggles, with pride ) Joan bites seductively into her hot dog. The others are close behind. Except Ronald's partner, Taco Bill, who is vomiting.
ORIN: OK guys, this is it. First team to complete this challenge wins the whole shootin' match. ( unfurls a scroll, reads ) ASMI's past is behind us; But our future looks nice; Let's Build a Bridge to the 22nd Century. by scaling this silo of ice! Some DUDES with ice climbing equipment ropes, picks, etc. appear. Tim looks petrified. Joan shakes her head.
JOAN: That doesn't even. There's no such thing as silo ice climbing.
TIM: No, it's actually a big thing in Iowa. ABC news did a story about it. I saw it on YouTube.
JOAN: Of course you did. Well, you can do it then.
TIM: Uh-uh, absolutely not. I'm scared crapless of heights.
JOAN: You need to get over it, Lippe, cuz I'm not climbing jack.
TIM: Yeah. Let's do this thing. Orin turns on a boom box, which blasts some triumphant music ( Whitesnake's HERE I GO AGAIN, perhaps ). QUICK CUTS: The Dudes get Tim and Mike Pyle into their climbing gear harnesses, helmets, crampons. And they start climbing. Sort of. Tim jams his pick into the ice. He tries to pull himself up, but can't. Mike fares worse. He can't even get his pick to stick in the ice.
MIKE PYLE: Little help here. The Dudes shout instructions. Tim and Mike try again. To no avail. Neither could do a pull-up if his life depended on it.
TIM: Ugh. This is frickin' hard.
RONALD: Really hard.
DEAN: I think I just shit my pants. Joan cheers. Orin looks to the Dudes, who shrug.
ORIN: OK gang, that was Rick Martini with the National Chapter. Here's the deal. Since no one could do the final task, and since Joan and Tim were the first team to get here, we're just gonna go ahead and award them the first place prize. Unless anyone's got a problem with that? Ronald mutters to himself, frustrated with his performance.
RONALD: Dangit. You could've done better, Wait, we won?
TIM: Wait, we won?
ORIN: Yup. So here you guys go. Your $75 gift card for the Westdale Mall. Orin hands Joan the gift card. Despite the anticlimax, Tim is overjoyed. He picks up Joan and spins her around. Everyone else just wanders away.
TIM: Oh crap. I forgot.
TIM: I'm sorry, Mil. I signed up for this scavenger hunt, and check it out we won! My teammate and I, that is. Joan.
JOAN: Hi Millie!
TIM: That was Joan saying hi. ( beat, to Joan ) Millie says hi.
JOAN: I'll just meet you inside.
TIM: OK. Sounds good.
MILLIE: So who's this Joan?
TIM: Just some gal from Omaha they paired me up with. Between you and me, she's a little different. Real hyper one of these types who kind of overdoes it. But for a 75 dollar gift card, I'm not going to Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
TIM: ( PLAYFUL )
MILLIE: Well. You obviously have more important things to do than talk to me. My brother and I were just getting ready to go for fish at the Eagles anyhow. Reveal: Wade is sitting in his rightful throne, watching an aerobics show on TV. Millie snaps at him.
MILLIE: It's fine. You'll call me some time when it's convenient for you, Tim. Good Night. Millie hangs up. Wade gives her a supportive shrug.
TIM: Hey. What say we just use the gift certificate to get a nice supper here? At the mall.
TIM: We have a gift card. But I didn't make a reservation. Is that OK? Save for three tables of ELDERLY PEOPLE, the place is empty.
MAÎTRE D': Right this way, sir. Tim raises his eyebrows to Joan not too shabby.
WAITER: Coors Lite for the madam. A cream sherry for monsieur. And here are some bottomless bread sticks.
TIM: Nice. Thanks. The waiter exits. Tim raises his glass for a toast.
JOAN: That's really nice. Cheers. They clink glasses. Tim takes a dainty sip of his sherry.
TIM: Mm, it does taste a lot like communion wine. Awesome.
LATER: Joan feeds Tim a bite of her lasagna. A bit sticks to his chin. She wipes it off, semi-seductively. Tim laughs.
JOAN: So Lippe, I'm trying to figure you out. Hopes, dreams, aspirations, blah-blah-blah? Whaddaya got?
TIM: Mine? Let's see. Um. I would love some day to put a little greenhouse in my backyard.
JOAN: Dream the impossible dream.
TIM: No, I've actually seen some fairly decent portable ones at Fleet Farm that won't break the bank.
JOAN: C'mon, man. I mean fantasy-land stuff. What do you really want? A beat. He takes a sip of sherry, shrugs.
TIM: Well. I always hoped I could take over Northlands when Bill retired. But that obviously isn't going to happen now.
JOAN: Oh, screw him. He wants to sell, why don't you just buy Northlands?
TIM: Yeah right.
JOAN: Why not? You could get a loan.
TIM: I don't. Probably not.
JOAN: You know the business. You know the clients. You actually care about your job. You'd be perfect.
TIM: Grrrr. Ha. Time out. Sheesh. Let's.
JOAN: Yeah well, you can have mine.
TIM: You've got kids? Joan takes out her Blackberry. The screensaver is a family portrait: Joan, a MAN with a goatee, and TWO CUTE KIDS. All of them are dressed in denim.
JOAN: Tyler's ten. Ashley'll be eight next month. My little squirrels.
TIM: Awesome. Beautiful kids. And My hubby. Rich Fox. Richie. We met when we were both Rotary exchange students in high school. Lived in Norway for a semester.
JOAN: My hubby. Rich Fox. Richie. We met when we were both Rotary exchange students in high school. Lived in Norway for a semester.
TIM: I was such a spaz. Band geek, total ugly duckling braces, acne, the whole nine. I didn't even get boobs until college. Anyway, we ended up getting married sophomore year. Then kids. Then blah-blah-blah, and here we are. Richie's a Supervisor in the Parks Department now. For the County.
JOAN: I was such a spaz. Band geek, total ugly duckling braces, acne, the whole nine. I didn't even get boobs until college. Anyway, we ended up getting married sophomore year. Then kids. Then blah-blah-blah, and here we are. Richie's a Supervisor in the Parks Department now. For the County.
TIM: Tim doesn't hide his shock well. Joan sees it.
JOAN: I know it's effed up. And if I had it all to do over again, I don't know what I'd choose.
TIM: OK. I thought of another one.
JOAN: One what?
TIM: Wish. Or dream or whatever. It's still small potatoes compared to.
JOAN: No, let's hear it.
TIM: . to all you've done Norway and all that, but.
JOAN: You wanna be on American Idol?
TIM: No-no-no. Negative! Sheesh. But I do enjoy watching it quite a bit. Randy's always like, "That's awesome, dawg!" And Simon's such a ( mediocre British accent ) "Oh, I'm so superior."
JOAN: That's great, Tim. You'll do it. I know you will. Very cool. He shrugs again, but now he's grinning from ear to ear.
JOAN: Wanna get one for the road, stud?
TIM: Oh no, I have to practice my Two Diamond presentation. I can't.
JOAN: One nightcap. It'll loosen you up. Tim looks at the ground. He looks up, tries to make a joke.
TIM: Ha. Nightcap. Kneecap, more like.
JOAN: She looks at him oddly as he charges ahead to the bar.
TIM: She looks at him oddly as he charges ahead to the bar.
DEAN: Timbo and the O-Fox! Wondered when you crazy kids were gonna show up. He ushers them to the bar, where Ronald is seated.
RONALD: Can I buy the big-shot winners a drink? Coors Lite for Joan. And Tim, you want a pop?
TIM: Actually, do they have cream sherry?
RONALD: Cream sherry. Jeez, guess that victory really did go to your head.
JOAN: Coors Lite's good for me, thanks. I gotta run wash my hands quick. Joan exits. Ronald goes to order the drinks.
DEAN: You tag that yet, Timbo? Bet she's moist as a damp sponge, huh?
TIM: She is MARRIED. And you're just. What is wrong with you?
DEAN: Shit, what isn't wrong me? I drink too much, I weigh too much, I piss people off. Speaking of, that crank call earlier way outta line. People are right, I am an asshole.
TIM: Well. Yeah. You kind of are. But I guess I've seen worse.
DEAN: I love it! "I guess I've seen worse." I love it! ( big laugh, then ) Yeah shit, s'pose we all wish our lives had gone a little different. You don't come into this deal going, "Dear God, please let my wife toss me out on my ass. Please give my children the courage to hate my fucking guts. Thank you Jesus. Praise Jesus! Praise Jesus!" Ach, I'm just having fun. ( crosses himself, looks
HEAVENWARD ): No offense Big Man! Right, Timbo? Dean laughs heartily. It's a deeply uncomfortable moment. Tim looks around. He sees Joan talking to the karaoke DJ. Thankfully, Ronald returns with the drinks.
TIM: Ronald! Hello. ( takes his drink ) Thanks mucho. So Ronald, what's your situation? You married, or.?
RONALD: Negative. I'm pretty well married to Ronald Wilkes Insurance. I also do quite a bit of work with the St. Cloud Chamber. I'm Senior Warden at my church. So really, no time for a Mrs. Ronald Wilkes.
TIM: Don't get me wrong, I have my guilty pleasures antiquing, I'm active in community theater. And I have to admit I'm a big enthusiast of the HBO program, The Wire. But shux, I haven't had a proper vacation in nine years.
RONALD: Don't get me wrong, I have my guilty pleasures antiquing, I'm active in community theater. And I have to admit I'm a big enthusiast of the HBO program, The Wire. But shux, I haven't had a proper vacation in nine years.
TIM: I never use my vacation time.
DEAN: Maybe you two should take one of those gay cruises together.
RONALD: You know what you are Ziegler? You're what I call a real Richard. Dean and Tim look confused. Ronald giggles to himself.
TIM: ( titters as he figures it out ) Dick head. Yeah Dean, you are a total Richard!
DEAN: Ha! I love it! Richard head! Tim high fives Ronald. Joan returns, sits next to Tim.
RONALD: To Tim the young rookie comes in, takes the scavenger hunt. That right there is P-T. Prime Time. They all drink to that.
DEAN: Would you rather toss a bum's salad, y'know, eat out his butthole or. give your dad a B-J?
RONALD: Come on Ziegler, this is supposed to be a clean game.
TIM: No, if you used some salad dressing a bum's a-hole might not taste that bad. Thousand Island! Tim laughs hysterically. Which makes everyone else laugh.
JOAN: ( to the bartender ) Kamikazes, good sir.
TIM: Did he just.?
JOAN: Why wait for the church choir when you can take care of one of your dreams right now, dude?
TIM: No, no, no, no, no. The bartender pours the shots. Joan whispers to Tim.
JOAN: I know you can do it, Lippe. Go be my hero Insurance Man.
KARAOKE DJ: Tim Lip? You in the house? Joan passes Tim the shot. He slams it. The room applauds as Tim nervously makes his way to the stage. Tim confers with the DJ. The DJ nods, cues up the song. Tim gives Joan a look of mock anger as he takes the mic.
TIM: I, um, I've met some really, just super neat people here. But this song, I'd like to dedicate to the first African-American person I've ever met. I mean, I've seen guys at the Oneida Mall in Rhinelander said hello and that. But. Anyway, I just think you're one of the most awesome guys around. Ronald Wilkes! Tim gives Ronald a thumbs-up. Ronald returns the gesture as the opening bars of Clarence Carter's PATCHES kick in. [NOTE: Patches is an EXTREMELY sentimental soul song about a poor black kid named Patches.] The first verse is spoken word.
RONALD: The presentation's in 36 hours. I can't afford to be off my game. Frankly, neither can you, Tim. Tim responds by giving Ronald a noogie. Everyone laughs. - Joan, Dean and Ronald roam the Holidome halls. Tim jumps out from behind a corner, whips some ice machine ice at Dean. Dean takes off running after Tim. Joan and Ronald follow. - The song fades out as the four of them approach the Pool Area. The sign on the pool door says, Hours 8 AM - 11 PM.
TIM: Uh-oh. Who is it then?
RONALD: You know what I mean. We've both worked our tails off. Why poop it away on.
DEAN: Check this out Captain Nemo! Dean has placed the top of a garbage can on his head. It looks like an old-time scuba apparatus. Tim laughs.
TIM: ( TO RONALD )
JOAN: Whaddaya say, Lippe? Take a dippy?
TIM: ( GERMAN ACCENT )
JOAN: So we stay in the shallow end. ( starts removing clothes ) And neither did I. Gulp. Now in her bra and thong, Joan jumps in. Dean bobs around with the trash can on his head. Tim slowly starts to undress. He carefully places his money belt on a table. He gets down to his T-shirt and tightie- whities. Far enough. He eases himself into the shallow end.
TIM: Yow. Chilly. Ha. Joan back strokes over to Tim. He tries to look elsewhere.
JOAN: Yep. Ha. Fun. Fun day.
TIM: Yep. Ha. Fun. Fun day.
JOAN: Joan undoes her bra. Oh jeez.
TIM: Oh jeez.
DEAN: Hell yeah. Joan pulls off Tim's T-shirt, flings it aside. They're really going to town. OFF-SCREEN, we hear a sliding door open. HIGH ANGLE ( Specifically, four floors up ): From this POV, it looks like Tim and Joan are having sex. Dean, meanwhile, has moved closer and may or may not be masturbating as he watches them. Reveal whose POV this is: Orin has come out onto his balcony. He looks aghast.
ORIN: What the heck's going on down Tim looks up, makes fleeting eye contact with Orin. Shit! Tim scrambles to get out of the pool. Joan is a half-step behind him. Dean decides that now would be a good time to moon Orin.
DEAN: Suck my ass, Helgesson.
ORIN: I'm calling security! Tim grabs his money belt as he and Joan run out of the pool area. [Note: Tim has a conspicuous erection.]
TIM: Holy crap! We're so dead! Then Joan mauls Tim. She tackles him to her bed. He rolls on top of her. A primal, guttural howl erupts from Tim. Then:
DEAN: Come on, Ronimal! My key got wet. Wake up, man!
TIM: Your body's just so. firm and pretty. Mmm. Making love to you was just super. super awesome. Joan just smiles as she gets into bed.
JOAN: Cuddle? Um. OK.
TIM: I love to cuddle.
JOAN: No baby, you guys are playing at Papillion/La Vista. Ralston is next Calm down, Tyler. You're not gonna miss it. It's not that far. Put your dad on. Tim wakes up. The morning light hurts his hung over eyes.
TIM: Good morning.
JOAN: Crisis on the home front. Sorry if I woke you up.
TIM: No problemo. Tim sees that Joan's computer is open and his Two Diamond presentation is up on the screen.
JOAN: Your cell phone kept ringing in your little fanny pack thing, so I shut it off. When I saw the discs, I figured I'd take a look. It's a solid presentation.
TIM: Um. Thanks. It was Roger Lemke's.
JOAN: Yeah, I see that.
TIM: What? Whaddaya.? You and. You and Roger, you mean?
JOAN: It's so stupid but everyone basically treated us like the Brangelina of ASMI for a while there. It ended two years ago. He was getting into some pretty weird stuff. as we all know now. Tim is livid. He ejects his disc from Joan's computer.
TIM: My foot I knew! No, I did not. And yes, it most certainly does matter. Man, this T's me off.
JOAN: Tell me you're not jealous. You can't be jealous. The guy's dead.
TIM: Every stinkin' place I go people remind me: You're no Roger Lemke. You're not as good as Roger Lemke. Here we go again.
JOAN: As good? Tim, Roger was a small- minded, egotistical jerk. You're an infinitely better man than he was. This stops Tim in his tracks. Better than Roger Lemke. Wow.
TIM: Why were you with him then? This stops Joan in her tracks. Her inner pain percolates.
JOAN: Why? I don't know. I don't know. I guess I probably maybe don't like myself very much. I don't know.
TIM: Hey, hey. Come on. You're pretty and smart and just super awesome.
JOAN: What are you talking about?
TIM: Us. This.
JOAN: What this? What are you talking about? There's no this. There's no us. I have a family.
TIM: What about.?
JOAN: What about it? I told you, what I do here. In Cedar Rapids. It stays here. Tim gets up, even more pissed off than he was before.
TIM: Where the heck are my clothes?
JOAN: Come on, Tim. We're adults here. You're acting like a child.
TIM: Yeah. Well, you're acting like a fricking. prostitute. He wraps up in a towel, grabs his money cummerbund and goes. A moment. Joan looks at the rumpled bed sheets, starts making the bed. As she does, she sees the Clairol Nice `N' Easy hair dye box in the garbage. Joan smiles a what has become of my life smile. She sits on the bed and stares out the window.
TIM: I lost my slacks somewhere.
TIM: I'm really, really sorry Ronald. If I said anything, or.
RONALD: Hey, it's not Ronald Wilkes's job to judge you, Tim. End of the day, the Lord's got that covered. But am I disappointed? You bet I am. Heck, I'm all for having fun. But I didn't think you were one of these guys who comes down here only to get loaded and act like a derelict.
TIM: No, I'm not. I.
RONALD: What a couple of class acts. I'm running late for the prayer breakfast. Oh and Tim, Bill Krogstad's been trying to reach you all morning. FYI. Ronald walks off. Tim deflates.
BILL KROGSTAD: Tim, Bill Krogstad again. Orin Helgesson told me about your little hootenanny in the pool there. Clear violation of ASMI's Morals Code meaning we lose our ASMI certification, we lose our Two Diamond rating, we lose our customers and I lose any chance of ANYONE buying my goddamn business.
BILL KROGSTAD: ( to Photographer, despondent ) Yah. Be there in a.
TIM: He picks up a hairbrush and tries to break it. But it won't break. Dean enters.
DEAN: That time of the month? ( off Tim's look ) C'mon man, it's gonna be OK.
TIM: No it's not. Nothing is OK. My job, my fiancé. ( dawns on him ) God, I'm a philanderer. I've let Bill down. I've let everybody down.
DEAN: C'mere, kiddo. Sit. Sit down.
TIM: Is this.? Why is this all of a sudden about you, Dean?
DEAN: I'm telling you this, buddy, because it shows to go ya even if you're a fucking waste of space jerk-off like myself, there's always opportunities to do the right thing. If this Two Diamond bullshit and that matters so much, you'll find a way to make it right. If not, fuck it. Life's way too short to lose sleep over shit that don't matter. Tim slowly nods, surprised to find himself moved.
ORIN: Without any more ado, our keynote speaker, Iowa Insurance Commissioner, Mrs. Susan Voss! The room goes nuts. As Orin leaves the stage he spots Tim waiting in the wings. Tim gestures for Orin to come outside.
TIM: President Helgesson, please let me stay in the Two Diamond contest. Please. This isn't for me it's for Bill Krogstad. I can't let him down. Please just let me compete. A moment. Orin nods, almost imperceptibly.
ORIN: ( self-deprecating, but proud ) Tiffany Suite. Bit much. Perks of the Presidency, guess you'd say. Please. Have a seat on the davenport. Tim sits. Orin goes to the mini-fridge, takes out a Sprite.
TIM: Ah, no. Thanks.
ORIN: Suit yourself. Orin opens the Sprite, drinks. He reaches into a briefcase. He hands Tim a document with dozens of signatures on it.
TIM: This is the petition? Tim shakes his head as he reads the names.
ORIN: Between you and me this was a ploy by Mike Pyle. Trying to drive down the value of Northlands so he could get it on the cheap.
TIM: Oh my gosh, really? Thank you. Orin sits next to Tim on the couch, closer than he needs to.
ORIN: One thing Roger Lemke knew, Tim? He knew that when you get all dolled up, go to the prom the Big Dance that you gotta be prepared to put out. To show a little teat. ( off Tim's confused look ) You ever hear of PayPal, Tim?
TIM: PayPal? Um, yeah. I've used it to pay for Beanie Babies on E-Bay.
ORIN: Good. Thing you gotta ask yourself now is this: "Am I ready to dance? Am I ready to show a little TEAT?"
TIM: I don't understand what you mean.
ORIN: Calm down, Orin. I'm sorry. Please, let's talk E-Commerce for a minute. Tim hesitantly follows Orin to the desk. A laptop sits open.
TIM: You bet.
ORIN: So Roger's up here looking over this new system, and he gets one of these lightbulb-going-off kinda looks, the way he did. And he says, "Orin, with that newsletter going digital you're saving almost four grand a year in printing costs alone. Four grand. Pure profit." You see where this is going, Tim?
TIM: I can't say that I do.
ORIN: PayPal. That's where. What has ASMI ever given Orin Helgesson? Huh? Not dime one. Sure as shoot not an opportunity to serve on the National Board. Have I not been a good President? Do I not deserve a little something?
TIM: You're an awesome President.
ORIN: You're GODDAMN right I am! Orin pounds his fist on the desk. Tim swallows hard.
TIM: I'm still not reading you here.
ORIN: There aren't printing costs anymore, see? The ASMI-teer's digital. E- Commerce! Don't you get it, Tim? All that money almost 39-hundred dollars a year that goes into a PayPal account now. My PayPal account. But I've got no idea how to use it.
TIM: Do you literally mean you just need help, like, getting on-line, or.?
ORIN: Your performance in that scavenger hunt was first-rate. Then I see you in the pool making love to that floozy, I realize maybe you've got a bit of Lemke's, shall we say, moral ambiguity. I need that.
TIM: You're talking about stealing.
ORIN: Pontoon boats don't pay for themselves, Tim. Roger Lemke came to the prom. He showed me a little teat. I rewarded him with the Two Diamonds three years running. I'm prepared to do the same for you. What do you say? You take home those those Two Diamonds, Northlands' value skyrockets, Bill Krogstad retires to his time share. Everybody We push in on Tim at the crossroads of all crossroads. Outside, a clap of thunder booms ominously.
TIM: I'd be doing it for Northlands to keep it in Brown Valley and help my co-workers. To help Bill. Tim looks away, avoiding eye contact. Then:
ORIN: OK, marvelous!
DEAN: Vote for Deanzie. Vote for change.
WOMAN: I'm good thanks.
DEAN: Well fuck you very much, Carla. The woman shakes her head and walks away. Ronald approaches.
RONALD: Not a snowball's chance in Hades.
DEAN: You're all a bunch of dicks.
RONALD: ( spots Tim O.S. ) Hey there, Hangover Harry. 18 hours and counting. Got your guns loaded for the Two Diamonds, partner? Tim's guilt is apparent in his awkward demeanor.
TIM: Um. I. I don't know about that.
RONALD: Don't be nervous. You'll do fine. There's a prayer circle tonight before the entertainment program might help ease your mind.
TIM: I'm sorry about. Ronald. Just. about everything. Tim abruptly walks away. Dean and Ronald look at each other, perplexed, as Tim exits the hotel into the pouring rain.
KAY: Happy Saturday! What'cha drinkin'?
TIM: A large cream sherry, please. As she pours a healthy glass of sherry:
KAY: Looks like you could use some cheering up. What do you call it when it rains chickens and ducks?
TIM: ( DISTRACTED )
TIM: ( off her confused look ) It's Tim Lippe. From the ASMI convention. We met out in front of the Holidome across the street? Bree coughs a hacking, phlegmy cough. She's very out of it.
BREE: Totally. You wanna party?
TIM: Ooh, that's really awesome of you to ask. But I have a super important presentation in the morning unfortunately, so. The squinty-eyed man, GARY, who has been drinking out of the sink, looks up at Tim.
GARY: I gotta work in the morning, too. Can't be productive or whatever without occasionally taking a little ride on the good times express. It's like, fuck that shit, yo.
TIM: Yeah. I hear that. L and. clear.
BREE: Seriously. We're going to this thing at my Uncle Ken's later after his shift's done. Bree examines Tim, standing stiffly, hands in his pockets.
TIM: I have had a pretty messed up day actually. Might not hurt to forget about it for a little while.
ORIN: My advice, Mike? Pull the trigger. I've pretty well convinced him that his company's in the crapper. 85- thousand is as low as I could possibly get him.
MIKE PYLE: He's said nothing to indicate I'd have to hang onto his employees or the office up there, right?
ORIN: Bill was real clear about that. You're buying his clients not his brand. You've done this before, Mike. The Northlands policies will simply roll over into your Allstate office in Milwaukee. Unless you want to keep a satellite branch up there in North Palookaville.
MIKE PYLE: ( CHUCKLES )
ORIN: Oh, and Mike we're square on my consultant's fee?
MIKE PYLE: Ten percent, as agreed.
ORIN: Marvelous. Now just give me a second here.
ORIN: We're all systems go over here, Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
ORIN: I was able to get Pyle up to 81- thousand for you, Bill, which is pretty amazing given all the. the tribulations and that. Of course that number doesn't include my 15 percent consultant's fee.
BILL KROGSTAD: Y'know what Orin, it's only a seven hour drive to Cedar Rapids. If I leave right now, I can be there first thing in the A-M and we can lock this sonofagun down.
BILL KROGSTAD: Hell yes. You bet. It's no problem. I'll be there in time to see the Two Diamond presentations not that that matters to me anymore! Thanks a million, Orin! Krogstad clicks off his phone, pumps his fist, overjoyed. He approaches his wife.
DIONE KROGSTAD: No, Bill.
BILL KROGSTAD: Goddamnit, Dione, not now. This is happening. No flex on this one!
JOAN: We used to get bands, Ronald. Real bands. Kansas. REO Speedwagon. Remember REO let me get on stage and play tambourine?
RONALD: I'll go ahead and admit, this is an odd choice for an ASMI headliner. Budget crunch, I guess.
DEAN: Are you ready for this? Mike Pyle of Shit just bought Northlands. Word is the cocksucker's liquidating Timbo and the whole Brown Valley What? Holy smokes. Does Tim know?
RONALD: What? Holy smokes. Does Tim know?
JOAN: Don't look at me. I don't think Tim likes me very much anymore.
DEAN: Cry me a fucking river, honey. This isn't about you for once.
JOAN: Fuck off, Dean. Jackass.
RONALD: Hey. Come on you guys. Cut it out. The crowd guffaws as faux Jack does his thing.
DEAN: You two are a couple of serious fucking downers, man. Timbo left here in a huff a few hours ago you saw him Ronimal. Maybe he already knew. Shit, the kid's one of my best friends.
RONALD: You met him two days ago, Ziegler.
DEAN: Know what, blow me Ronald. It's not my fault you're too goddamn afraid to open up and tell another man you love him. Do what you want, but the Deanzie's gonna make sure his friend is doing OK.
TIM: That must be pretty all right, Ken, getting half off at Applebee's all the time. I'd only weigh like 10- thousand pounds.
UNCLE KEN: Pass me that cube, Skeet. Gary opens the glove box, passes Ken a glass pipe. Ken lights up, takes a hit, passes it to Bree. Bree follows suit, then passes the pipe to Tim. Tim looks at it, pauses.
TIM: Ah.? This would be marijuana, I'm A beat. Then they all laugh like crazy. So Tim laughs, too. Bree puts the pipe in Tim's mouth. He looks frightened.
BREE: Suck the glass dick, dude. They laugh. Bree lights the pipe. Tim inhales and instantly: oh fuck, Oh Fuck, OH FUCK! Tim's eyes bulge, his teeth grind. Then he shakes his head like a wet dog and violently COUGHS.
TIM: Oh jeez, oh jeez, oh jeez.
BREE: A butterscotch might help.
DEAN: Trying to reach Tim Lippe. Who am I talking to?
DEAN: That right? Is he there now?
TIM: I FEEL AMAZING! THIS IS AWESOME! HOW MUCH MONEY DO YOU HAVE ON YOU? Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
BREE: HOW MUCH MONEY DO YOU HAVE ON YOU? Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
TIM: AH, CASH-WISE? ABOUT 90 DOLLARS, I THINK. I'VE GOT A TON OF TRAVELER'S CHECKS, THOUGH. WHY? I'LL GET US SOME MORE CRYPTO. THEN YOU CAN FUCK ME IF YOU WANT. ( not sure he heard right )
BREE: I'LL GET US SOME MORE CRYPTO. THEN YOU CAN FUCK ME IF YOU WANT. ( not sure he heard right )
TIM: ( not sure he heard right )
BREE: JUST GIMME A HUNDRED. Tim pauses. Then what the heck. He unzips his money belt.
KAY: Like I say, he was pretty ripped from all that sherry. He left with Ken and them for some party.
DEAN: Who's Ken?
KAY: ( CONSPIRATORIAL )
RONALD: Oh jeez. D'you know where they were going? Any idea?
KAY: You could try Ken's place. It's way out in the boonies.
TIM: My mom became real protective of me after my dad passed. She didn't really let me play sports or any of that. Fact, if I think about it, I never really did much of anything. Except gardening, which I do enjoy.
BREE: Well you're livin' now. Here. She offers Tim a line. He declines.
TIM: Thanks. It's funny, though, because my job is all about protecting other people's dreams. But what about my dreams?
BREE: It could be like maybe. ( does another line ) Whoa, shit's tight. Like maybe it has to do with your parents both dying? Like, maybe by protecting other people it's like you're trying to save your parents. Like somehow you feel like it's your fault? Like in your sub-conscience? Something struck a nerve with Tim. He chokes up.
JOAN: Oh man. This place is bad news.
DEAN: I'll be standing by `case things get squirrelly in there. Getaway vehicle type scenario.
JOAN: So you're sending me into that shithole? How chivalrous, Dean.
RONALD: You and me can go in, Joan. It'll be fine, I'm sure.
GARY: Nice tits.
JOAN: ( not missing a beat ) Thanks. Thank you. That's nice.
RONALD: We don't want any trouble, guys. We're just looking for our friend. The dudes let Joan and Ronald pass into the house.
DEAN: Mm-mow-mow. Two tickets to paradise. Hmm-hmm, pack your bags we'll leave tonight.
JOAN: Oh shit. IN THE KITCHEN: Uncle Ken is choking Tim. The PARTYGOERS cheer. Uncle Ken punches Tim in the stomach. Tim falls to the filthy linoleum. Bree protests.
BREE: But he paid for it, Uncle Ken.
UNCLE KEN: You can't let some dude pay for crystal meth and an ass fuck with a traveler's check, Bree. That shit can be traced.
TIM: ( WHEEZING )
UNCLE KEN: Shut the fuck up. He kicks Tim hard. It's looking bad, when all of a sudden:
DEAN: Oh fuck! Ronald, Tim and Joan exit the house.
RONALD: They run for Dean's minivan. Tim slips, sliding across the snow and mud. Ronald drags him halfway across the lawn before Tim finally gets to his feet. Dean, meanwhile, tries to finish peeing as he makes his way back to the van doing a sort of crab walk to avoid pissing on himself. Tim, Ronald and Joan dive into the minivan. Dean climbs back into the driver's seat. Bree and gang exit the house and watch as Dean peels out, tossing up bits of gravel as he speeds away.
DEAN: What the fuck happened?
JOAN: Oh my God, Tim. Are you OK?
TIM: ( JITTERY )
RONALD: In order to extricate Tim from what was clearly a volatile situation, I did, in fact, rely on my community theater training. I don't like to brag, but I do a pretty convincing Omar from the HBO program, The Wire. ( beat, as a gangsta ) Least them crackers back yonder seemed to buy it.
DEAN: The Ronimal! The minivan speeds through the dark, rainy night.
TIM: I can't believe Bill would do this to me. He was like a father.
DEAN: Wasn't just Krogstad, Timbo. Orin's the real devil in this deal. Joan shoots Dean a look shut the fuck up.
JOAN: You'll find another job, Lippe. Maybe even move to a new town.
RONALD: Shoot, you could come work for me if you wanted. For some reason, Tim finds this funny. He laughs hysterically.
TIM: I love you, Joan.
JOAN: ( to Dean Get some sleep you guys. I'll stay up with him make sure he doesn't chew his arm off. Ronald sighs, nods. Dean kisses Tim's sweaty forehead.
DEAN: Sleep good, little friend. Dean and Ronald head for the bedroom. Tim looks at Joan.
TIM: I didn't make love to Bree, Joan.
JOAN: It doesn't matter. Here, lie down, Tim rests his head on Joan's lap. His eyes are still on fire.
ORIN: Oh, Tim. Just a sec. Orin glances in the mirror, smooths his hair. He undoes the chain and opens the door. Tim bursts in and attacks! Orin, being relatively frail, immediately tumbles to the carpet. This can't be good.
JOAN: Oh shit.
TIM: Sweet love showin' us a heavenly light. I never seen such a beautiful sight! See love glowin' on us every night, I know forever we'll be doin' it right! Tim drives past a farm and sees dozens of hogs foraging around in a sloppy pen. He stomps the brakes, sliding dangerously onto the muddy shoulder.
TIM: I always wanna call you "friend!" Sweet love showin' us a heavenly. Tim opens up the trunk. That's when we see: INSIDE THE TRUNK: Orin, in his pajamas, bound and gagged by Holiday Inn bedsheets. His shouts are muffled by the gag. Tim pulls Orin from the trunk. Orin's feet are tied together, so he has to hop as Tim leads him toward the hog farm.
ORIN: ( terrified, through gag ) I did a ton of research on hog farm risk mitigation. Don't worry they might bite you a little if they think you're a food source. But there's never been a recorded hog- bite death. So. With great difficulty, Tim picks up Orin. Then, he awkwardly hurls him over the barbed wire fence. Orin lands on his back in a deep pile of mud and hog shit. The hogs descend.
TIM: I did a ton of research on hog farm risk mitigation. Don't worry they might bite you a little if they think you're a food source. But there's never been a recorded hog- bite death. So. With great difficulty, Tim picks up Orin. Then, he awkwardly hurls him over the barbed wire fence. Orin lands on his back in a deep pile of mud and hog shit. The hogs descend.
WIFE: Who the heck's calling at this hour on a Sunday morning? The man answers the phone. ( NOTE: We should now recognize the couple as the clients Tim dealt with in the Northlands conference room. )
HUSBAND: TIM ( O.S. ON PHONE ) Kurt Gambsky, Tim Lippe your insurance agent. How's Pam and the Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
HUSBAND: ( whispers to wife ) Tim Lippe.
TIM: Well, I think everything's OK. Hope it is anyway. Listen Kurt, here's why I'm calling.
RONALD: People sometimes say that promises are cheap. You know what Ronald Wilkes says to that? N-S-F. Not so fast. At the end of the day, a man's word is a sacred creed. And the word I give you at Ronald Wilkes Insurance is I will work for you. Thank you. The words, "Ronald Wilkes Insurance: Working For You" appear on screen. Ronald's face dissolves over the eagle. The CROWD goes nuts, applauding wildly. Dean and Joan start a standing ovation. Ronald, though exhausted, beams on stage. Tim is nowhere to be found. An EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEMBER addresses the crowd.
DEAN: Hey Travis, I don't think Tim. Just then, Tim appears. He is filthy covered in mud, sweat, hog shit and tears. He futilely smooths his hair and tries to tuck in his shirt as he takes the stage to sparse applause. Tim goes to the computer set up on stage for Power Point. He puts in his disc. His presentation appears on the screen.
TIM: ( SEVERELY COUGHS )
BILL KROGSTAD: ( JAW-CLENCHED SMILE )
TIM: Why'd you do this, Bill? I don't Krogstad chuckles, preferring to avoid any public drama.
BILL KROGSTAD: ( to the audience ) Sorry, folks. Guess it's against the law now for a business owner to sell his own business. Must've missed that constitutional This draws chuckles from the crowd.
TIM: Insurance isn't just a business, Bill. Insurance is personal. I've got some savings. I could've gotten a loan. We could've worked something out.
BILL KROGSTAD: ( still playing to the crowd ) Yeah, there's a guy you want running an agency, isn't it?
TIM: Screw you, Bill. Screw you. hard.
BILL KROGSTAD: Watch yourself, Lippe.
TIM: I knew which ones would be on their way to church, which ones I'd be waking up, which ones probably got a little blotto last night and might be hung over. And every single person I talked to every one is staying with me.
BILL KROGSTAD: You don't know what you're doing.
TIM: I do actually. I do know, Bill. And before the day is out, I'll have called all my clients. All of them. ( to Mike Pyle ) So hey, congratulations Pyle of Shit you just bought a company that's losing half its business.
DEAN: Fuck yeah Timbo! Mike Pyle blinks several times. Krogstad seethes. Before Tim can fully bask in the glow of his triumph:
JOAN RONALD: Jesus Lippe, what did you do? Aw jeez. This is no good.
DEAN: What's the fucking charge?
TIM: Before the cops get to him, Tim hands Dean a crumpled piece of paper.
DEAN: What's this?
TIM: You'll figure it out. A cop cuffs Tim and leads him out of the ballroom.
TIM: I know what you're thinking thinking "this wiseacre's full of baloney." Am I right? Reveal: He's chatting with a massive black man, REGINALD, 30.
GUARD: Tim Lip?
REGINALD: He pronounce it like Lippy.
GUARD: Well, you're outta here, Lippe. Tim hands Reginald a business card.
TIM: I'm serious. Call any time on the mobile or home phone, though. The office number's no good anymore. Reginald gives Tim a warm hug.
REGINALD: Thanks Tim. You're all right.
TIM: Don't even say it, Deanzie no one butt rammed me or whatever in "Butt ram!" I love it! Dean gives Tim a hug. He then pulls a crumpled piece of paper from his pocket it's the sheet Tim gave him earlier.
DEAN: "Butt ram!" I love it! Dean gives Tim a hug. He then pulls a crumpled piece of paper from his pocket it's the sheet Tim gave him earlier.
TIM: Not particularly.
DEAN: When I saw it, at first I was like, shit am I supposed to take money out of the account, or what?
TIM: Did you?
DEAN: Nah, it was more fun watching the smug fuck sweat. I told him I'd rat his pathetic ass out if he didn't drop the charges against you.
TIM: ( a genuine smile ) Dean tosses the paper into the trash. We now see what it says. On Holiday Inn stationary, in Tim's scrawl: www.paypal.com. Username: OrinHelgesson. Password: PontoonMan123.
RONALD: It's not as cool as I thought it'd be. I don't think this is even real ( lacking his usual energy ) I'll show you some real wood. Ronald starts giggling. It turns into a laugh. The laugh becomes infectious. Before long, Tim, Joan, Ronald and Dean are all laughing their asses off.
DEAN: ( lacking his usual energy ) I'll show you some real wood. Ronald starts giggling. It turns into a laugh. The laugh becomes infectious. Before long, Tim, Joan, Ronald and Dean are all laughing their asses off.
TIM: Deep subject. D'aar. Get it? ( punches his arm ) I told you you were a hero, Lippe. Insurance Man saves the day!
JOAN: Deep subject. D'aar. Get it? ( punches his arm ) I told you you were a hero, Lippe. Insurance Man saves the day!
TIM: Tss. Ruined it more like.
JOAN: True sign of a good day.
DEAN: Well, pal, it's been real.
TIM: ( CHOKES UP )
RONALD: Yeah. You bet.
DEAN: Listen, my cousin Bob guy made a truckload selling these little scented pine trees all the ragheads hang in their cabs? Fuckin' believe that? Anyhow, he's got a sweet cottage up on Lake of the Woods. Canada? I can use it whenever I Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
RONALD: More time in a tightly enclosed space with Ziegler. Gee, sign me up.
TIM: I think it sounds awesome.
RONALD: Actually, me too. The Ronimal could use a vacation.
DEAN: Dean picks Tim up in a bear hug, spins him around. Ronald gives Tim a more subdued hug. Then there's Joan.
JOAN: So. Keep in touch. E-mail, all that good stuff.
TIM: You bet. You bet. You too.
JOAN: If you're ever not that you would be ever in Oh-my-God, Nebraska.
TIM: Yeah. Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom. I used to watch that. Would be cool some day to see.
JOAN: Yeah. Look me up.
TIM: He puts out his hand. She laughs and hugs him instead. Tim closes his eyes. She feels so good. Smells so good. Joan's eyes are wide open. She swallows hard. She will not cry. It's OK. Keep telling yourself everything will be OK.
TIM: So, did you do anything fun in Cedar Rapids.?
TIM: How's the walleye?
MILLIE: Decent. Not bad.
TIM: Meatloaf's on the dry side.
MILLIE: Tim tries to smile at Millie. He is surprised to see that her eyes are filling with tears.
TIM: Without saying a word, Millie struggles to pry the small diamond engagement ring from her sausage-like finger. Finally, she gets it off and hands it to Tim. He thinks of protesting. Instead, he takes the ring and puts it in his pocket. Millie sniffles a bit, composes herself. Tim opens his mouth to say something. Before he can think of anything to say:
WADE: Shit, where were they hidin' the EXT. TIM'S BACKYARD - DAY Tim dumps birdseed in the feeder. Sunlight filters through the tree branches. The snow is starting to melt.
TIM: How ya doin' there, Leslie?
LESLIE: Ach, I'm too old to give a shit. They take off their gloves to shake hands. Leslie won't let go of Tim's hand the way old men sometimes do.
TIM: No, you probably won't.
LESLIE: Mm. Anyhow, I told the cocksucker to go fuck himself. Says I'm going with Tim Lippe. A man I can trust.
TIM: I'm trying. Leslie pats Tim on the shoulder. As he heads back inside:
LESLIE: Let me know when them red squirrels show up at your feeder. I'll borrow you my 22. Tim chuckles. He goes back to his yard. He pauses. At his feeder: A robin. A sure sign of spring. An uplifting song fades in, along with:
RONALD: Can I be honest here, Tim?
TIM: You bet.
DEAN: What was with the fuckin' unicorn?
TIM: What? It represented hope.
RONALD: All's I'm saying is you might've wanted to hire an actor with some professional training.
DEAN: Jesus a retarded kid just sitting there yelling would've been better than you.
TIM: Aw, you're both a couple of a- Tim whips an empty beer can at Dean. The three friends laugh living life in the moment. As it should be.
THE END: Writers : Phil Johnston
