SUSIE: ( over phone ) Susie. Hi, it's Ed. I'm sorry I woke you up.
ED: Susie. Hi, it's Ed. I'm sorry I woke you up.
SUSIE: Is something wrong?
ED: Eve isn't there, is she?
SUSIE: No. She's not there?
ED: No. She didn't come home after work.
SUSIE: Oh, no. Didn't she call or anything?
ED: No. She was supposed to be home around six. I cooked her dinner.
SUSIE: Could she have gone anywhere else?
ED: I don't think so. Do you?
SUSIE: I don't know.
ED: I'm a little worried.
SUSIE: I bet. Did you call Harborview?
ED: No. Do you think I should?
SUSIE: Yeah. If she got into an accident of something, they would take her there.
ED: You don't think that's overreacting?
SUSIE: Don't be silly. Just call them. It can't hurt.
ED: Alright. But if she comes home later and it turns out to be nothing, don't tell her I called the hospital, OK?
SUSIE: Call me back.
ED: Ed finds the Yellow Pages and finds a page of "non-emergency" numbers. His finger runs down the list: Trauma, Fire, Disaster, etc. until he comes to Hospitals and then Harborview. He dials the number.
OPERATOR: Hello. I wanted to find out if someone had come in. In an emergency, maybe.
ED: Hello. I wanted to find out if someone had come in. In an emergency, maybe.
OPERATOR: Hold on. She transfers him and the phone rings again.
NURSE: Emergency room.
ED: I wanted to find out if someone had been brought in.
NURSE: What's the last name?
ED: Saxon. Eve Saxon.
NURSE: Are you a relative?
ED: She's my wife.
NURSE: One second. No. No one with last name Saxon.
ED: Are there any other hospitals that I could check?
NURSE: Well, we serve as the emergency room for King County, so unless they specified a hospital, they would have been brought here. In an emergency.
ED: OK. Thank you. He calls Susie back.
SUSIE: What happened?
ED: Jeez. Did you guys have a fight?
SUSIE: Jeez. Did you guys have a fight?
ED: No. No.
SUSIE: Did you call the school?
ED: Yeah, a while ago. No one answered the phone there.
SUSIE: It's not like her to not call, is it?
ED: No, she would have called.
SUSIE: Why don't you call the police?
ED: The police?
SUSIE: Maybe they know something? Like if she was in an accident.
ED: It's going a little far, don't you think?
SUSIE: I don't know. If you're worried.It's not like the police have anything better to do.
ED: I guess. OK. I'll call you tomorrow. Sorry to wake you up.
SUSIE: It's OK. Call me tomorrow. He hangs up.
OPERATOR: 911 emergency.
ED: Hi. I don't think this is an emergency.
OPERATOR: What's the problem?
ED: My wife hasn't come home and, I don't know..I wanted to check with the police to see if there was an accident.
OPERATOR: When was the last time you saw her?
ED: This morning. She was supposed to come home from work, but she didn't.
OPERATOR: When does she get off work?
ED: Around six. Usually.
OPERATOR: She hasn't called since then?
ED: Do you have any idea where she might have gone? Maybe to a friend's house?
OPERATOR: Do you have any idea where she might have gone? Maybe to a friend's house?
ED: I don't think so. I called the only place I could think of.
OPERATOR: But you were expecting her home.
ED: Yes. I cooked dinner.
OPERATOR: I could send a police officer to your house.
ED: Do you think that's necessary? Maybe I should wait.
OPERATOR: Until when? It's five in the morning.
ED: Maybe she went somewhere.
OPERATOR: I don't know. Should I be worried?
ED: I don't know. Should I be worried?
OPERATOR: I would be.
ED: Yes, I'm worried.
OPERATOR: So, do you want me to send an officer to your house?
ED: I don't think so. I think I should wait.
OPERATOR: Do you think she's going to come home soon?
ED: I hope so.
OPERATOR: So do I. How long are you going to wait?
ED: A little longer. I think I may be overreacting. She might have gone somewhere I can't think of. Sometimes I worry too much.
OPERATOR: OK. It's up to you. My name is Paul. I'll be here if you change your mind. Ed hangs up.
WOMAN: I hate you! Stay away from me! Don't touch me! Just go to sleep! I'll scream! I am not screaming now! You don't know anything about me! Then the noise dies down and the woman can be heard sobbing in the distance.
OPERATOR: 911 emergency.
ED: Hi. I called before. I think I was talking to Paul.
OPERATOR: Hold on. Paul comes on the line.
OPERATOR: This is Paul.
ED: Hi. I called before. My wife hasn't come home.
OPERATOR: Yes. I remember. You want me to send an officer over?
ED: What's your address?
OPERATOR: What's your address?
ED: 4523 East Street.
OPERATOR: He should be there in a few minutes. OK?
ED: Yes. Thank you.
OPERATOR: You did the right thing, sir. Ed hangs up. Almost instantly, he sees some lights pass by the window. He looks through the window and sees a police car pull up. He opens the door and watches the officer as he approaches the house. OFFICER STEWART is a youngish patrolman. He is relaxed, caring and formal.
STEWART: You called the police?
ED: Yes. It was me. That was fast.
STEWART: Thank you.
ED: Come in. Stewart is led a few steps into the living room. He looks around.
STEWART: Your wife didn't come home? Is that right?
ED: When was the last time you saw her?
STEWART: When was the last time you saw her?
ED: When she left for work this morning. She was supposed to come home after work. I cooked dinner.
STEWART: And she made it to work, right?
ED: Yes. I think so. I don't know.
STEWART: What time does she usually come home? Around six?
ED: Yes. Usually.
STEWART: What does she look like?
ED: She's blonde, straight hair.
STEWART: What was she wearing? Do you remember?
ED: I think it was a red sweater and a dress.
STEWART: What kind of car does she drive?
ED: A Volvo. Gray. '85, I think. Stewart lets out a sigh of relief.
STEWART: Well, you had me worried. There was a blonde woman involved with a car-jacking around six. Apparently she was hit on the head by one of the perpetrators and then wandered away from the incident in a daze. Nobody's seen her since. When I got the call on the radio, I thought that must have been your wife, but this woman was driving a Pathfinder and was wearing jeans, so it probably wasn't her. You had me worried.
ED: She drove a Volvo. Drives a Volvo.
STEWART: That's a relief. Do you know anywhere your wife might have gone?
ED: I called the only place I could think of. And I called the hospital.
STEWART: Stewart takes a couple of pills from a bottle and takes them, chasing them down with a coffee he has with him.
ED: Stewart takes a couple of pills from a bottle and takes them, chasing them down with a coffee he has with him.
STEWART: I'm afraid there's not much I can do now. By law, we can't put out a missing persons until 72 hours has elapsed since the last time she was seen.
ED: 72 hours?
STEWART: Usually in these cases, it was something stupid. Maybe she was upset about something, had to get away. Who knows? What I can do is take the license plate number of her car and if it shows up for some reason, we'll give you a call. Do you have your wife's license plate number?
ED: Yes. Actually, it's easy to remember. 007 FEC.
STEWART: James Bond.
ED: Right. And FEC, For Every Child.
STEWART: And what's her name?
ED: Eve. Eve Saxon.
STEWART: And your name?
ED: Ed. Saxon.
STEWART: Like I said, it was probably something stupid. Did you have a fight?
ED: Not at all.
STEWART: Well, you should try to get some sleep and, if she doesn't show up tomorrow, give us a call and we'll see what things look like then. OK?
ED: Yes. Thank you.
STEWART: Usually, they come back.
ED: Yes. Thank you. I feel much better now. Thank you for coming.
STEWART: No problem. You have a good night. Or morning, I guess.
ED: Yes. You too. Ed shuts the door. He's a little wired so he sits at his desk and picks up a pile of his students' papers. He reads the one on top, marking it with a red pen as he does. He hears a gurgling noise coming quietly from the bathroom. He gets up and walks into the-
ED: Mr Saxon?
DERM: Mr Saxon?
ED: Sorry to wake you up.
DERM: Sorry to wake you up.
ED: I wasn't asleep.
DERM: Oh. I called a few times and when there wasn't any answer I thought I better come over.
ED: What time is it?
DERM: About 3:30.
ED: 3:30? Maybe I did fall asleep. Damn.
DERM: I'm Detective Derm of the Seattle Police Department. You called last night about your wife.
ED: We found her car this morning. On Capitol Hill. Actually, somebody called it in. It was running.
DERM: We found her car this morning. On Capitol Hill. Actually, somebody called it in. It was running.
ED: Did your wife come home last night?
DERM: Did your wife come home last night?
ED: Did she go to work today?
DERM: Did she go to work today?
ED: I don't know. I haven't called.
DERM: Do you have a number for her there?
ED: Ed picks up the phone and dials from memory.
DERM: Why don't you let me? He hands Derm the phone.
DERM: Hi, this is Detective Derm of the Seattle Police. I was wondering if Mrs Eve Saxon had come into work today, or called in, any word from her. Yes. Since yesterday. Did you see her leave yesterday? Yes. About what time was that? I'm not sure. Is she calls, or comes in, could you please ask her to call me. My number is 734-9722, extension 38. Thank you. Bye. He hangs up.
DERM: She hasn't been in today.
ED: My God.
DERM: She hasn't called here at all?
ED: Any messages? He points to the answering machine. It is blinking, full of messages.
DERM: Any messages? He points to the answering machine. It is blinking, full of messages.
ED: I must have been asleep.
DERM: That happens.
ED: I was up late last night.
DERM: I understand. Why don't we listen to these messages?
ED: Ed pushes the button on the machine. The first message is from Eve's work.
CELESTE: ( on machine ) Hi, this is Celeste, calling for Eve. We're worried about you. You don't come in. You don't call. No, seriously, we just want to make sure you're OK. Don't worry about your students. Marie's covering for you. But give us a call, OK? Bye.
ED: That's the school where Eve works. She's a piano teacher at Franklin High. Then there's a message for Ed.
MRS MASTRIONI: ( on machine ) Hello, Mr Saxon. This is Mrs Mastrioni from the University. You didn't show up for your morning class and I'm calling to see if you'll be in for your other classes so that I can make the proper arrangements. I assume you remember how to use the phone.
ED: You're a teacher too?
DERM: You're a teacher too?
ED: A professor at the University. The next message is Derm.
DERM: ( on machine ) Hello, this is Detective Derm from the Seattle Police Department. Derm takes a small pill box from his overcoat, while the machine plays in the background.
DERM: That's me. Do you have a glass of water?
ED: Ed goes into the -
DERM: Your wife did this?
ED: Smart woman. The acrostic, too. Ed hands Derm the water.
DERM: Smart woman. The acrostic, too. Ed hands Derm the water.
DERM: Thank you. Meanwhile the next message comes on. It is a girl from Ed's class.
SADIE: ( on machine ) Hello, Mr Saxon? This is Sadie, from your creative writing class. Anyway, you didn't show up today and I just wanted to see if you were OK and, you know, if there was any reading or anything you wanted us to do. My number is 323-4854. I hope you're alright. Bye.
DERM: A student?
ED: Do they call you often?
DERM: Do they call you often?
ED: No, but they all have my number. The next message is from Susie.
SUSIE: ( on machine ) He, Ed. I just wanted to find out what happened last night. If Eve ever showed up, or what happened. Call me at work,
ED: I thought she might have gone over there last night. Excuse me, I better call the University. The next message is Detective Derm again and it plays behind Ed's conversation.
ED: Hi, Mrs Mastrioni?
MRS MASTRIONI: ( over phone ) This is Ed Saxon.
ED: This is Ed Saxon.
MRS MASTRIONI: Oh, yes. Didn't make it in today, huh?
ED: I guess not.
MRS MASTRIONI: There were students waiting for you.
ED: Yes, I know. It's a personal matter.
MRS MASTRIONI: A personal matter, huh?
ED: That's right.
MRS MASTRIONI: So you'll be in tomorrow.
ED: Yes, tomorrow.
MRS MASTRIONI: Or you'll call.
ED: Or I'll call, yes. Hello? Hello? Ed hangs up, having been hung up on. He turns around to see Derm standing right by, listening to his call. The next message is from George Simian, a man who works with Eve. His cautious voice makes it known that it is weird that he is calling. Ed pays special attention to this call.
GEORGE: Hi, Eve. This is George, from school. You didn't come into work today and I just wanted to make sure everything was OK. I guess I'll see you tomorrow.
DERM: Who's that?
ED: Some guy she worked with. P.E. teacher, I think.
DERM: I see. Mr Saxon, does your wife have an address book?
ED: Could I see it, please? And a picture, if you have one.
DERM: Could I see it, please? And a picture, if you have one.
ED: Ed heads into -
DERM: Derm flips through the address book and a business card falls out. Derm picks it up and looks it over.
DERM: George Simian. Is that the same George that called?
ED: This address, this George Simian lives on Capitol Hill, where we found your wife's car.
DERM: This address, this George Simian lives on Capitol Hill, where we found your wife's car.
ED: May I borrow this?
DERM: May I borrow this?
ED: I suppose.
DERM: I'll call the numbers in here and see what I can turn up. Try no to worry, Mr Saxon. I'll be in touch.
ED: Yes, thank you. Derm leaves. Ed shuts the door and locks it. The phone rings and Ed picks it up.
ED: ( over phone ) He, Mr Saxon?
SADIE: ( over phone ) He, Mr Saxon?
ED: Hi, it's Sadie Crumb, from your creative writing class.
SADIE: Hi, it's Sadie Crumb, from your creative writing class.
ED: Oh, yes. Hi.
SADIE: Are you OK? Is this a bad time to call?
ED: No. It's alright.
SADIE: I was, I don't know, wondering if you were sick or something, when you didn't come to class.
ED: No, well, a little.
SADIE: Do you need anything? I mean, I could bring you something.
ED: No, I don't think so.
SADIE: Really, it's no problem. Have you eaten?
ED: No, but.
SADIE: I can bring you something to eat. It's no problem. Some soup or something.
ED: Really, I don't know if it's a good idea.
SADIE: Oh, I'm sorry.
ED: No, don't be. It's just that I don't feel too well.
SADIE: That's OK. I used to volunteer at a hospital.
ED: Yeah, I was a candy striper.
SADIE: Yeah, I was a candy striper.
ED: You're kidding.
SADIE: What I mean is, I'm used to it. You know, sick people.
ED: Yeah? OK.
SADIE: Where do you live?
ED: 4523 East Street.
SADIE: I'll be there soon.
ED: Oh. Do you not eat meat, or anything?
SADIE: Oh. Do you not eat meat, or anything?
ED: No. I eat anything.
SADIE: Great. Bye. Ed hangs up the phone. He walks into the -
ED: INT. EVE'S ROOM He looks around Eve's room quickly. There is no one there. Ed goes back to the -
ED: Ed reaches into the drain and pulls out a clump of Eve's hair. He throws it into the toilet and then gets in the shower. The drain is obviously still clogged up. He is up to his knees in soapy water.
ED: Hold on! One second! Ed grabs Eve's robe from the back of the bathroom door.
SADIE: Hi, it's me.
ED: Oh, hi.
SADIE: Are you OK?
ED: I didn't think you'd be here so fast.
SADIE: It's almost eight.
ED: Oh. I seem to be having a little trouble with time.
SADIE: I know what you mean. I'm one of those people who is always late.
ED: Come in.
SADIE: I hope you don't mind me coming over like this. It didn't occur to me that it might be a little strange until after I hung up. It's just, well, at my high school, I went to boarding school, and we were pretty close with our teachers.
ED: It's nice. Kindness. Very refreshing.
SADIE: I brought you some soup.
ED: I better get some clothes on. Make yourself at home.
SADIE: INT. BEDROOM Ed gets dressed. As he does, he notices a pile of Eve's clothes on the floor. He picks them up and puts them in the closet, on top of a pile of Eve's dirty laundry.
SADIE: I put it in a bowl for you. I hope you don't mind.
ED: Thank you. Ed sits down and tastes the soup.
ED: It's good.
SADIE: I got it at my favorite place. You don't mind me hanging out for a little while, do you?
ED: No. I could use the company. Like I said, I haven't been feeling very well. Sadie notices the pile of papers on Ed's desk.
SADIE: Oh, you graded our papers.
ED: Some of them.
SADIE: Can I look?
ED: Sadie looks through the papers. She finds hers marked with a C minus.
SADIE: What is it?
ED: What is it?
SADIE: I just.I guess I though this one was better.
ED: Let me see. Ed looks over the paper for a second. He takes a pen and crosses out the C and changes it to an A.
ED: I was in a bad mood when I graded these.
SADIE: Don't change it if it's not good.
ED: It's just a grade.
SADIE: Please don't. No. Don't. Please. Sadie takes the paper away from him.
ED: Sorry. I didn't mean to.
SADIE: It's just. I don't think you're doing me any favors by letting me off easy. I mean, I'm hear to learn. It means a lot to me to do well in your class. You're the best teacher I've had since I came to the University.
ED: How long has that been?
SADIE: Well, I'm still a freshman, but I've met a lot of teachers and I'm very discerning. Before I took your class I went to the library and looked up your work.
ED: You're kidding.
SADIE: No. I read all your poems, or all they had. The ones in the New Yorker and in Poetry Magazine, and two short stories.
ED: What did you think?
SADIE: I loved them; the poems especially. I mean, they're dark, but they're so.true. Really. I really got into them. I photocopied one and put it on my wall. I hope you don't mind.
ED: Which one?
SADIE: "The Passion of my Youth". It is so intense. "Her eyes blew gently, purposefully by my ears, echoing gentle pulses of bliss which bounced and fired like a chill on my whole being, leaving just a trace to fuel my longing."
ED: My wife like that poem.
SADIE: You're married.
ED: Where's your wife?
SADIE: Where's your wife?
ED: She's at her mother's. She's gone for a while.
SADIE: There is an awkward silence.
SADIE: May I use the bathroom?
ED: Sure. Go ahead. Sadie takes her purse and goes into the bathroom. Ed finishes his soup. The phone rings and he picks it up.
ED: Is this Ed?
GEORGE: Is this Ed?
ED: This is George Simian.
GEORGE: This is George Simian.
ED: Where's Eve?
GEORGE: Where's Eve?
ED: Why do you want to talk to Eve?
GEORGE: What have you done?
ED: Excuse me?
GEORGE: You've done something. I know you have.
ED: What are you talking about?
GEORGE: The police found her car near my house. They think I have something to do with her disappearance.
ED: Maybe it's because you were fucking her.
GEORGE: You son of a bitch. What did you do? If you hurt her, I swear, I'm going to kill you.
ED: Look, she disappeared. I haven't seen her. Why do you think I called the police?
GEORGE: I'll kill you. I'll kill you, you bastard. I swear. Ed hangs up. He is shaky, but also strangely exhilarated. He turns off the ringer on the phone and turns down the volume on the answering machine.
ED: There is no answer. He knocks on the door.
ED: Sadie? Is everything alright? There is still no answer.
ED: I'm coming in. OK?
ED: Are you alright? My God. What happened? Ed comes over to her and lifts her head. She stares at him strangely.
ED: Can you stand? Do you understand me? I'll help you to the bedroom. Sadie notices her pants are down.
SADIE: I'll wait outside.
ED: I'll wait outside.
ED: You want some water.
SADIE: Yes, please. Ed goes into the -
SADIE: I'm so embarrassed.
ED: No, don't be.
SADIE: God, my nose.
ED: Does it hurt?
SADIE: No, but the blood.
ED: Maybe you hit it when you fell.
SADIE: It was so weird. I heard someone's voice, a woman's voice. Like a scream. And then it was like all my blood left my body.
ED: Sometimes you can hear the neighbors.
SADIE: It was like it echoed around the bathroom. Maybe I imagined it. I've been taking these caffeine pills to stay awake.
ED: Just relax.
SADIE: I should go.
ED: I can't let you leave like this.
SADIE: I didn't mean to be such a burden. I'm such a loser. I am so sorry about this. It seems that her nose has stopped bleeding, but her sweater has a surprising amount of blood on it.
ED: I'll get you a towel. Ed leaves and then comes back with a wet towel. He starts to wipe the blood off her nose.
SADIE: I feel better now. Thank you.
ED: Do you want me to drive you home?
SADIE: I'll be OK.
ED: Maybe you want me to call your roommate.
SADIE: My roommate moved out. She hated me. She said I was immature, do you believe that?
ED: Your friends, then.
SADIE: I don't have any friends. I don't know what it is. People don't like me here. I thought it would be a good idea to go to a school far away from home, but since I've been here, it's like, I spend all this time on my own. At my high school, my friends and I were so close. I just don't get along with people anymore. I don't know what it You get along with me.
ED: You get along with me.
SADIE: You're the first person I've met since I've been here that talks to me like a real person. Ed walks over to the closet and takes out a sweater.
ED: You can borrow this, if you want. It's my wife's.
SADIE: She wouldn't mind.
ED: I bled so much. Ed gets up to give her some room. She slips out of her sweater and puts the other one on. Sadie looks at a picture next to the bed.
SADIE: I bled so much. Ed gets up to give her some room. She slips out of her sweater and puts the other one on. Sadie looks at a picture next to the bed.
SADIE: Is this your wife?
ED: That's my mother. That picture is older than it looks.
SADIE: She's so pretty.
ED: She was young when that was taken. She died a few years ago.
SADIE: That's awful. How'd she die?
ED: Cancer. It was quite an ordeal. She died very slowly.
SADIE: That's so sad. I better go, huh?
ED: It's getting late.
SADIE: I'm sorry about everything.
ED: Don't be sorry. I'm glad you came.
SADIE: I'll see you tomorrow.
ED: In school. You'll be there, right?
SADIE: In school. You'll be there, right?
ED: Oh, yes. I'll be there.
SADIE: Sadie kisses him on the cheek and then leaves. Ed locks the door after her.
DOCTOR: Mr Saxon.
ED: There's nothing we can do for her now except to alleviate any pain she may be feeling. We have her on a morphine drip and we'll keep increasing the dosage as she shows any signs of pain.
DOCTOR: There's nothing we can do for her now except to alleviate any pain she may be feeling. We have her on a morphine drip and we'll keep increasing the dosage as she shows any signs of pain.
ED: I see. Can she understand me?
DOCTOR: At this point, probably not. She has so much morphine in her, I doubt she can even recognize you. But you never know. Actually, in cases like this, where the end is inevitable, I recommend that we increase the dosage on the morphine drip at an accelerated rate. There's no point in making this last longer than it has to.
ED: Whatever you think is best. The doctor nods, then walks into the hospital room where, we see now, Ed's MOTHER is lying in a hospital bed, hooked up to a digital IV. She is old, but looks older - she's been through chemotherapy and radiation and they have all taken their toll. She stares at Ed with confused and desperate eyes. It is hard to tell if she is looking at him or not. The doctor, at the door, has a few words with the NURSE, who then looks into the room. Ed sits next to his mother and takes her hand. She stares at him. The nurse comes in and pushes a button on the digital IV. Ed watches the LED numbers on the digital IV go up. The nurse smiles an attempt at comfort, then leaves the room. Mother reacts to the higher dosage of morphine. Her eyes get wider and more delirious. She sits up a little and tenses her muscles. She lets go of Ed's hand and starts moving her arm up and She starts shouting something. At first, it is completely unintelligible, but slowly, it becomes clearer.
MOTHER: IT MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HELL! IT MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HELL! IT MEANS YOU'RE GOING TO HELL! Ed stands up and backs away. He backs out of the hospital room as his mother continues to scream. Ed backs into the hallway, which is now blackness. As he backs away, another noise starts to echo around him. A banging. A loud banging is coming from upstairs. Ed backs away and then runs upstairs.
GEORGE: You son of a bitch. Get up. Ed staggers to his feet. He tries to get a swing in at George, but George grabs him by the collar, hits him again, then throws him over the coffee table. Ed hits the phone and the answering machine on the way down.
GEORGE: When Ed doesn't say anything, George starts searching around the house.
EVE!: When Ed doesn't say anything, George starts searching around the house.
GEORGE: ( O.S. ) Ed can hear George searching around in the other rooms. He gets up and sits on the couch, nursing his wounds. After a minute, George comes back into the living room.
EVE!: Ed can hear George searching around in the other rooms. He gets up and sits on the couch, nursing his wounds. After a minute, George comes back into the living room.
GEORGE: What have you done?
ED: Don't hit me again.
GEORGE: You son of a bitch. George sits down on a chair across from Ed.
GEORGE: You son of a bitch.
ED: What did you think would happen? Nothing?
GEORGE: You did something.
ED: I did what I always do. I woke up, went to my shitty job, came home and cooked dinner for my wife, who was too busy bouncing up and down on your bedsprings to cook it herself. Not exactly what I had planned for my life. The same boring shit as always. Why don't you I love her. I'm sorry. I know she's your wife. George is crying. Ed, despite himself, is moved.
GEORGE: I love her. I'm sorry. I know she's your wife. George is crying. Ed, despite himself, is moved.
ED: What? Am I supposed to feel sorry for you now? Well, I won't. People think they can just carry on. They don't think that there might be consequences to their actions. You won't find sympathy here. Why don't you just leave?
GEORGE: What did you do?
ED: I didn't do anything. She didn't come home after work. George gets up and starts to leave.
ED: Don't come back here again. George stops when he hears this and turns towards Ed with and angry look on his face. He grabs Ed's collar, picks him up from the couch and slugs him hard across the head. Ed lands on the floor, stunned and not moving.
GEORGE: I swear. If I find out you did something to her, I'll kill you. Ed watches George leave and stays lying on the floor as George's car can be heard driving away outside. The telephone is lying on the floor, knocked off its cradle, just out of Ed's reach. Ed stares at it for a few seconds. It is making that beeping noise that phones make when they are off the hook too long. He slowly gets up and limps into the bathroom.
ED: Hello. Detective?
DERM: Mr Saxon?
ED: I've been trying to call you.
DERM: I've been trying to call you.
ED: You found her.
DERM: No. I need to talk to you.
ED: Detective. George Simian was just over here. He hit me.
DERM: Are you OK?
ED: I think so.
DERM: Do you want me to call an ambulance?
ED: I don't need an ambulance.
DERM: I'll be right over.
ED: He hangs up the phone. He sits at the desk, resting the ice on his forehead. Then he notices something under the sofa. It grabs his attention. He gets up for a closer look. There are dust bunnies and dust under the edge of the sofa, like it hasn't been swept for a while. Ed kneels down and tries to peer under the sofa. It is dark underneath and he can't see He reaches his fingers under and sweeps out a few dust bunnies. Then he reaches a little further under the sofa and sweeps out Eve's pinkie finger. He recoils at the sight of this. The finger has been neatly cut, as if by a sharp blade. Dust has clung to the clotted blood around the stump, but it is unquestionably a woman's pinkie He stares at it for a second, curiously disgusted. He goes to pick it up, decides he doesn't want to touch it, then uses a tissue to pick it up. He hurries to the bathroom.
ED: One second! Ed sits there waiting, listening to the toilet tank filling. The knocking outside is becoming more impatient. The tank finally fills. Ed flushes and watches. This time the paper he threw in clogs the toilet and the bowl quickly fills up with water. Ed reaches behind the toilet and turns off the water, stopping it from overflowing. He looks in the toilet and can't see the finger through the mess of toilet paper. There is another knock on the door. Ed closes the toilet lid.
DERM: Damn. You did take a couple of blows, didn't you.
ED: I was just putting some ice on it.
DERM: That's the best thing for it. Try to keep the swelling down. It's going to look worse tomorrow. You don't want to have a doctor examine you?
ED: It's not necessary.
DERM: Mr Saxon, Officer Mazurek and Officer Snyder. They'll be assisting me.
ED: How's it going?
MAZUREK: How's it going?
SNYDER: Here. I brought this in. Snyder hands Ed the newspaper.
ED: You say it was George Simian who hit you?
DERM: You say it was George Simian who hit you?
ED: Yes, he did. He came barreling in here and hit me. Several times.
DERM: Do you have any idea why he would come here?
ED: Because he's a fucking asshole.
DERM: I should say that I'm concerned that he would come here. Mr Simian has a history of violent behavior, in regards to domestic disputes.
ED: What kind of history?
DERM: Nothing too serious. No felonies. But enough, I think, to warrant some concern. With your permission, I'd like to fill in a complaint report for his assault on you, and as soon as we're finished here, I'll send these two over to arrest him, assuming he can be found.
ED: You think he did something to Eve?
DERM: We don't have any evidence that he's even seen your wife she left her office and disappeared. We'll be arresting him solely for his assault on you.
ED: But Eve's car. You said you found her car near his house.
DERM: It does no one any good to jump to conclusions.
ED: I guess I misunderstood.
DERM: We're going to have to take some pictures of you for the complaint report. The pictures will be used as evidence against Mr Simian if this matter does, eventually, go to trial.
ED: Derm turns to Snyder, who has heard this conversation, and Snyder begins to take pictures of Ed.
DERM: Mr Saxon. These investigations can be quite demanding, especially when experiencing the trauma of loss. Do you understand what I am saying?
ED: If you feel that you need someone to talk to, at any time, there are people, sometimes victims of similar situation themselves, who are will to listen and would like to help. He hands Ed a business card which reads Human Support Services, and has some address and phone information on it.
DERM: If you feel that you need someone to talk to, at any time, there are people, sometimes victims of similar situation themselves, who are will to listen and would like to help. He hands Ed a business card which reads Human Support Services, and has some address and phone information on it.
DERM: Are you aware that your wife has been having an affair?
ED: With George Simian?
DERM: The P.E. teacher. I guess I should have known.
ED: The P.E. teacher. I guess I should have known.
DERM: Apparently your wife has been seeing him for some time. Almost a year, in fact.
ED: A year?
DERM: Do you consider that you and your wife have a normal relationship?
ED: I don't know. Normal relationship. We get on each other's nerves, have sex a few times a year, order pizza on Fridays. We've been married for ten years. It doesn't stay rosy forever. Maybe it isn't paradise, but that doesn't mean that I don't love her.
DERM: Are you having any other relationships?
ED: Does your wife keep a diary?
DERM: Does your wife keep a diary?
ED: No. She isn't the type.
DERM: Mr Saxon. May I be frank?
ED: Yes. Please.
DERM: Cases involving missing persons are not uncommon. In many cases, and that is not to say in every case, but in many cases, the results are unfortunate.
ED: My God.
DERM: I'm not saying that you should give up hope, but my experience tells me that you should prepare yourself for the worst. Now, having said that, we will do everything in our power to find your I understand.
ED: I understand.
DERM: Now, it's best if we can gather as much information as possible, as quickly as possible. I'm sure you understand the urgency Of course.
ED: Of course.
DERM: It will be necessary for us to search through some of your wife's personal items.
ED: I'm sure I can find whatever it is that you want.
DERM: It's really in your wife's best interests if you allow us to do it. We won't disturb anything or touch anything without your How about we start in the bedroom?
ED: How about we start in the bedroom?
DERM: How about we start in the bedroom?
ED: The bedroom.
DERM: Right. I'll show you. Ed stands up and leads them into the bedroom.
ED: Right. I'll show you. Ed stands up and leads them into the bedroom.
ED: Here you go. It's sort of a mess.
DERM: Do you know where your wife keeps her credit card receipts?
ED: Yes. Sure. This way. Ed leads Derm to Eve's room, leaving the two assistants in the bedroom.
DERM: Nice room.
ED: You like it?
DERM: Yeah. Very Magritte. It's like a nursery.
ED: I guess it is. I always through it was more of a conservatory.
DERM: With the piano.
ED: Right. She plays in here sometimes. It's nice. We always wanted to fix up the whole house, but, this is the only room we got to.
DERM: Things always cost more than you think.
ED: Yeah, I don't know what happened. Anyway, we share a credit card, but she mostly uses her own.
DERM: If someone has taken your wife, there's a chance they might have used one of her credit cards. Or she might have used it Ed pulls at the locked drawer in the writing table.
ED: I think she keeps the receipts in here, but I don't have a key. Derm looks at the lock.
DERM: Let me try. Ed gets out of the way and Derm sits in the chair to examine the lock more closely. He presses his thumbs against the desk and breaks the wood around the lock, forcing the drawer open.
DERM: There we go.
ED: I could have done it if I wanted to break it.
DERM: I'm sure she'll understand.
ED: She won't. I promise. Ed sits back down and searches through the drawer. He finds some credit card receipts and sorts through them.
MAZUREK: Detective Derm. Mazurek comes into the office carrying Sadie's sweater, which has blood all over it. Snyder follows Mazurek in and looks over Mazurek's shoulder.
MAZUREK: It was under the bed, sir. Derm takes the sweater and looks at the blood on it.
DERM: Is this your wife's?
ED: There's blood on this sweater, Mr Saxon.
DERM: There's blood on this sweater, Mr Saxon.
ED: Yes, I know. A student. Detective, this is going to sound awkward, I guess, but a student of mine came to the house yesterday, after you were here. She was nervous, I suppose. She had a bloody nose.
DERM: Why would she have been nervous?
ED: I don't know, but she seemed nervous.
DERM: That is awkward, isn't it.
ED: I suppose it is. I gave her one of my wife's sweaters to wear home. She must have left that one by accident.
DERM: By accident? Under the bed?
ED: I don't know.
DERM: What was her name?
ED: Sadie. Sadie Crumb. Derm finds a small, printed name-tag reading Sadie Crumb sewn into the collar. Derm shows it to Mazurek and then indicates for him to go back to the bedroom. Derm shows the label to Ed.
DERM: Do you have this girl's phone number? I'd like to talk to her.
ED: I don't think so. Maybe. Ed gets up and walks into the -
DERM: I should call her.
ED: Sure. Here. He hands him the phone. Derm dials the number.
ED: I didn't tell her about my wife. I didn't see any reason to. Derm reaches into his pocket and pulls out a roll of Tums. He takes a couple and chews them and it obviously puts a bad taste in his mouth.
DERM: Could I trouble you for a glass of water?
ED: Ed walks into the -
DERM: ( O.S. ) Hi. May I speak to Sadie Crumb, please? This is Detective Derm of the Seattle Police Department. Can I ask you a few The officers turn and stare at Ed until he leaves.
DERM: Thank you.
ED: She sounded very nice. You know, I think she left her sweater under your bed on purpose.
DERM: She sounded very nice. You know, I think she left her sweater under your bed on purpose.
ED: Why would she do that?
DERM: So that she'd have a reason to come back.
ED: I see. Derm sees an open box of Skin-EE( cookies.
DERM: Hey. My wife loves those things. I swear, she eats them by the box. I think they taste like shit.
ED: I know. I hate them. Sometimes I think she eats them just to spite me.
MAZUREK: Detective Derm. Derm looks at Ed, then goes into the other room. Ed follows.
DERM: Did you go to work today, Mr Saxon?
ED: No. I guess I didn't.
DERM: If you'd like, I can call the University for you and explain the situation. It might help. I'm sure they would understand.
ED: I don't think it's necessary.
DERM: Well, the offer stands if you change your mind later.
ED: It's just that, I don't want them to know anything about all this. At least not yet.
DERM: I understand. They walk into the -
DERM: What's that?
MAZUREK: Looks like a diary, sir.
DERM: Let's have a look. Derm looks it over, reads the last couple of entries quickly.
DERM: Where'd you find this?
MAZUREK: Behind the bedside table.
ED: I didn't know.
DERM: We have to keep some things to ourselves, or we'd go crazy. This is your wife's handwriting? He shows him the diary.
ED: Yes. Can I look at that?
DERM: Of course. Ed takes the diary and wanders into Eve's room, flipping through it as he walks.
ED: I guess you never really know anyone.
DERM: You didn't know that you're wife is pregnant?
ED: I'm sorry. I talked to her doctor yesterday. I thought you knew. Mazurek comes up behind Derm and says something inaudibly in his ear.
DERM: I'm sorry. I talked to her doctor yesterday. I thought you knew. Mazurek comes up behind Derm and says something inaudibly in his ear.
DERM: Is it alright if Mazurek uses the bathroom?
ED: Excuse me?
DERM: The bathroom. May we use the bathroom? We might be here for a while.
ED: No. The toilet is stuffed up. Actually. Do you mind leaving? I just would like to be alone.
DERM: Mr Saxon. I'm sorry about the intrusions into your privacy, but you must understand: my first priority is finding your wife. There is still a great deal to go over. We might want to notify the press.
ED: The press?
DERM: In cases like this, when we don't have many substantial leads, getting a picture of your wife on TV can be invaluably helpful.
ED: I don't know if I'm comfortable with that.
DERM: We still have options left, but without a thorough search of your wife's belongings, those options are extremely limited.
ED: I want to be helpful, but I really don't see how, if you think she was kidnapped, I don't see how it helps you to search around our things.
DERM: We don't know that she was kidnapped. We can't draw those kinds of conclusions. She could have simply decided that she needed some time alone. We have to consider every possibility.
ED: I just don't see how it helps.
DERM: I don't want to argue with you. We're trying to help you. This is our job.
ED: I understand.
DERM: It is in the best interest of your wife that you let us do that job without impediment.
ED: I don't want to get in the way. I just would like some time alone. You can comes back tomorrow, but, please. I'm very tired. I know it might seem irrational, but I haven't slept in a long time and this is all extremely overwhelming. Please. I need to be alone.
DERM: Certainly. If I could just take those receipts.
ED: Sure. Here. Take them all. The receipts are on the desk in front of him and he hands them to Derm. Derm reaches out for the diary.
ED: I'd like to keep this.
DERM: There are some things it may be better not to know, especially if your wife comes back.
ED: I can give it to you tomorrow, if you still want it. Ed leaves the diary on Eve's writing table and walks the officers out.
DERM: Mr Saxon. Is there something wrong with your answering machine?
ED: Yes. It broke when I fell on it.
DERM: You haven't been answering your phone.
ED: It hasn't rung. Derm looks at the phone and sees the ringer is turned off.
DERM: The ringer is off.
ED: Oh. I must have turned it off.
DERM: What if your wife calls?
DERM: Yes. Of course. I wasn't thinking.
DERM: Could you please leave the phone on from now on?
ED: Yes. I thought I was. OK. Thank you.
DERM: I'll be calling to let you know how things go with Mr Simian.
ED: Yes. Thank you. Derm and the officers leave. Ed lets out a sigh of relief. He touches his forehead and it obviously hurts. He goes back into the bathroom.
ED: MRS MASTRIONI Mr Saxon. This is Mrs Mastrioni, from the Dean's office.
MRS MASTRIONI: Mr Saxon. This is Mrs Mastrioni, from the Dean's office.
ED: MRS MASTRIONI Mr Saxon. You are supposed to call us when you plan on missing class. There were students waiting for you.
MRS MASTRIONI: Mr Saxon. You are supposed to call us when you plan on missing class. There were students waiting for you.
ED: Yes. I know. I'm just having some personal problems.
MRS MASTRIONI: Anyway, the Dean wants to see you.
ED: The Dean?
MRS MASTRIONI: Yes. Can you come in today?
ED: No. What does he want to see me about?
MRS MASTRIONI: I don't know.
ED: Is it about me missing classes?
MRS MASTRIONI: It might be.
ED: What's that supposed to mean?
MRS MASTRIONI: It means that if I was the Dean, and I wanted to see you, that is what it would be about.
ED: What kind of bullshit is that?
MRS MASTRIONI: There's no need to get upset, Mr Saxon.
ED: Am I being fired? Is that it?
MRS MASTRIONI: Look, I don't know. The Dean said he wanted to see you.
ED: Well, I can't see him.
MRS MASTRIONI: Personal problems?
ED: That's right. Yes.
MRS MASTRIONI: That's too bad.
ED: Yes it is too bad. Because I know what you're trying to do.
MRS MASTRIONI: Really? What's that?
ED: You know what? Why don't you tell the Dean to go fuck himself?
MRS MASTRIONI: Mr Saxon.
ED: And you go fuck yourself too.
MRS MASTRIONI: Does this mean that you won't be coming to class tomorrow?
ED: Fuck you! Ed slams the phone down.
GEOFFREY: Mr Saxon?
ED: Hello. My name is Geoffrey Costas. I'm from Human Support Services.
GEOFFREY: Hello. My name is Geoffrey Costas. I'm from Human Support Services.
ED: I'm not interested.
GEOFFREY: Detective Derm asked me to stop by. He hands him a business card. Ed takes the card and looks it over.
GEOFFREY: You've been hit.
ED: I'm fine. I don't need a doctor. He tries to hand the card back.
GEOFFREY: Oh, I'm not a physician. I'm a psychiatrist. But I'm not here on business. This is my time off.
ED: This is a personal visit? I don't understand.
GEOFFREY: Human Services is a volunteer organization. We offer assistance to victims of traumatic crimes.
ED: What kind of assistance?
GEOFFREY: Advice, support, a shoulder to cry on.
ED: Why would I want to cry on your shoulder?
GEOFFREY: Maybe you just want someone to talk to. It can be a lonely world when those you love are taken from you.
ED: No. I don't think so.
GEOFFREY: Well, you have my card. If you feel like talking at another time, please feel free to call.
ED: Actually, there is something you can help me with. I've been having trouble sleeping.
GEOFFREY: That's understandable, under the circumstances.
ED: Is there something you can give me?
GEOFFREY: You mean a prescription?
ED: You're a doctor, aren't you?
GEOFFREY: I can't seem to find anything strong enough.
ED: I can't seem to find anything strong enough.
GEOFFREY: You're anxious.
ED: Yes. I can't sleep. It makes me anxious. Or maybe I can't sleep because I'm anxious. I don't know.
GEOFFREY: How long has this been going on?
ED: A long time.
GEOFFREY: Oh, yes.
ED: Oh, yes.
GEOFFREY: You must have slept some.
ED: Maybe I do. But I don't seem to get the benefits. I never feel rested. There just doesn't seem to be the time to relax anymore. I'm always two steps behind. I have to stop the thinking. The longer I stay awake, the more my thoughts become frantic, irrational. If I don't get some sleep soon, nothing is going to make any sense.
GEOFFREY: I see. May I come in?
ED: Yes. Come in. Geoffrey comes in and places his briefcase on the table inside.
GEOFFREY: There are times when the pressures of everyday life become overwhelming. As a doctor, I notice more and more of my patients experiencing similar symptoms. I'm afraid it's a sign of the times, as much as anything else.
ED: Can you help me?
GEOFFREY: Like I said, I'm not here on a professional basis. Your insomnia is merely a symptom of a greater unwholesomeness. A lasting treatment may be extremely hard to come by. There's very little we can hope to accomplish with pharmaceuticals alone. However, under the circumstances, I can give you something to help you sleep. Do you have health insurance?
ED: Yes, through work. Geoffrey takes a prescription pad from his briefcase and scribbles out a prescription.
GEOFFREY: The prescription I'm going to write for you is expensive, so I recommend you save the receipt for your insurance company. I'm sure they'll cover it. These pills are quite new. I've been prescribing them to my patients who travel a great deal, for their jet lag. They will help stabilize your internal clock by chemically suppressing certain amino acids in your brain.
ED: Will it help me sleep?
GEOFFREY: Oh, yes. Now, take two at night, and don't take more than six in a day. OK?
ED: Yes. Thank you. Geoffrey shuts his briefcase and starts to leave.
GEOFFREY: I'm glad I could help. How about I check in on you tomorrow afternoon?
ED: To see how you're doing?
GEOFFREY: To see how you're doing?
ED: I don't know.
GEOFFREY: For what it's worth, I understand your position better than you think. Don't shut it all out. Sometimes that fragile connection to the rest of the world is all we have. I sincerely hope things turn out for you. Tomorrow then?
ED: Ed shuts the door behind Geoffrey.
EVE: ( V.O. ) More than three weeks late. Damn. I'm so stupid. I haven't told George because I'm sure he would use this as an excuse to pressure me to leave Ed. And how can I tell Ed. There's no way he could be the father. We haven't had sex in months. He would know it isn't is. Ed flips back a few pages. As he does, the camera starts to travel around the room, passing the piano, and then a few pictures from Eve's past, then some souvenirs on a shelf.
EVE: ( V.O. ) Saw a movie last night with George. It was awful; just the kind of movie Ed hates. I wanted to tell him about it, but I couldn't. I told him I was at Susie's. George loved it, of course. I think he likes every movie. Still, it was nice to go out on a date like that. It was fun.
EVE: ( V.O. ) Ed came home in a shitty mood and started picking a fight with me about a coffee cup I broke last week. It was the last thing I needed, today especially. Sometimes I fucking hate him. He can be such a shit.
EVE: ( V.O. ) I can't believe what a jock George is. I knew he worked out, but he really takes car of himself. After we had sex, I was embarrassed to let him see me naked. How could I have gotten so fat? I'm going back to the gym tomorrow. I've really let myself go to pot. Maybe I'll get him a softball bat for his birthday next week.
EVE: ( V.O. ) Ed doesn't sleep anymore. He's beginning to scare me. He takes all these pills to help him sleep, but they only make it worse. And he hates me. I can see it in his eyes. He blames me for everything that went wrong in his life. Maybe he's right. Maybe it is my fault. I feel so guilty about George that I can't argue with him anymore. I can't keep this up much longer. Fuck it. I'm going to tell him about George tomorrow. He knows anyway. He must know. He's been acting so weird. Poor Ed. He used to have so much ambition. And he's so talented. I just wish things had turned out better. The camera turns toward the bathtub, and focuses slowly in on the drain. A few bubbles pop out from under the water and the water starts to drain out. As the camera dollies in on the drain, the last of the murky water disappears. Ed, now standing in the bathroom, strikes a match and holds it up to the diary until the corner finally catches on fire. He fans out the pages so that it will catch more. When he can't hold it anymore, he drops it into the bathtub and watches it burn. He watches it until it has burnt itself out, burning into a pile of thick, black ashes.
HARVEY: ( O.S. ) No. I won't.
SADIE: ( O.S. ) You are so crazy.
HARVEY: ( O.S. ) I'm crazy? What about you?
SADIE: ( O.S. ) Quiet. He's going to hear you.
HARVEY: ( O.S. ) So what if he hears me. Who is he, anyway?
SADIE: ( O.S. ) God, you are being such an asshole. Ed opens the door quickly.
ED: What's going on?
SADIE: Christ. I'm so sorry.
HARVEY: Who's this? Is this him?
SADIE: Will you shut up?
HARVEY: He's so old.
ED: Excuse me?
SADIE: Can we just go inside? Please? Ed lets Sadie inside.
HARVEY: So that's it? You're going with him now?
SADIE: You really don't understand anything.
HARVEY: You said you loved me.
SADIE: Jesus. Would you shut up? You are so embarrassing.
HARVEY: Embarrassing? I'll tell you what's embarrassing. You with this fucking geriatric old man. That's embarrassing.
ED: You little shit. Ed makes a move toward Harvey, but Harvey backs away quickly.
HARVEY: Don't touch me!
SADIE: Let's just go in, OK? He'll leave.
HARVEY: Stalker. Psycho.
SADIE: Stalker. Psycho.
HARVEY: Sadie slams the door on him.
SADIE: I can't believe that. You know, he followed me here.
ED: He followed you?
SADIE: Yeah. Do you believe it? Oh my God. What happened to you?
ED: Somebody hit me.
SADIE: Are you alright?
ED: I'm fine.
SADIE: Who hit you?
ED: I really don't want to get into it.
SADIE: I nearly had a heart attack when the police called me.
ED: What did they ask you?
SADIE: Just about me being here. About what happened.
ED: But nothing happened.
SADIE: That's what I told them.
ED: They found your sweater. It has blood all over it.
SADIE: You're kidding.
ED: You left it under the bed.
SADIE: Oh, yeah. Damn. I don't know why I do things like that.
ED: What if my wife had found it?
SADIE: Oh. Is she here?
ED: No. Look, Sadie. I don't want you to get the wrong idea.
SADIE: Don't be mad. It's just that I worry too much. You didn't come to class again. And you said you would. I started getting all these ideas. I called you, but nobody answered. I meant to bring your wife's sweater back, but I forgot it.
ED: Actually, I'm glad you're here. Can you do me a favor?
SADIE: Sure. Anything.
ED: I have to get a prescription filled.
SADIE: No problem. Ed finds the prescription on his desk.
ED: I'd go myself, but I'm expecting a phone call.
SADIE: He hands her the prescription.
ED: There's a twenty-four pharmacy on Market.
SADIE: I know the one. I go there all the time. It's like my second home.
ED: I'll give you my credit card. Ed finds his wallet and hands her the card.
SADIE: I'll be back in a minute.
ED: Thank you. Sadie skips out the door and Ed shuts it behind her.
DERM: Mr Saxon? Detective Derm.
ED: Yes, hi.
DERM: I wanted to let you know that we've taken Mr Simian into custody.
ED: I understand.
DERM: We found him at his place of work.
ED: At the school?
DERM: Yes. We arrested him there. He'll come up for arraignment tomorrow morning and then, as far as I can tell, he'll probably be released on his own recognizance.
ED: I see.
DERM: It's just standard procedure, but I thought I'd keep you informed.
ED: Yes. Thank you. Did he say anything about Eve?
DERM: Try to rest, Mr Saxon. We have a lot of ground to cover tomorrow.
ED: I will. Thank you.
DERM: Good night. Ed hangs up the phone. Then he hears some sounds coming from Eve's room.
WOMAN: ( O.S. ) Oh. Oh. Oh! Oh! OH! OH! NO! NO! NO! Ed backs slowly away from the window. He hears someone knocking on the front door.
ED: Thank you. Ed takes the bag from Sadie and goes into the kitchen.
SADIE: Those pills cost a lot. They must be strong.
ED: They're sleeping pills. I've been having trouble sleeping.
SADIE: You must have anxiety. I can never get to sleep when I'm anxious.
ED: I am anxious. Yes. Sadie takes some other stuff out of the bag. One of the items is an individually wrapped Skin-EE( fat-free cookie, chocolate, chocolate chip.
SADIE: I got you some peroxide and stuff. And a cookie. I haven't eaten today.
ED: You put it all on my credit card, right?
SADIE: Actually, I paid for it. They wouldn't take your card.
ED: Why not?
SADIE: They said you hadn't paid your bill, on the phone. They called the credit card people when it didn't go through.
ED: Damn. Well, I'll pay you back.
SADIE: It's OK. I charged it to my Dad. I don't even pay the bill.
ED: No, those pills are expensive. And my insurance will cover it anyway.
SADIE: Pay me back later, then. Really, it's OK.
ED: Are you sure?
SADIE: It's fine. I swear. Sadie looks at the cuts on his face.
SADIE: Your face must hurt.
ED: No. I don't seem to feel anything.
SADIE: It's nasty. Sadie takes a closer look.
SADIE: Here. Sit down. She sits Ed down at the kitchen table, under a light, and sits across from him, then takes the peroxide and some cotton swabs she bought at the pharmacy and starts to dress his wounds.
ED: I've never been hit before.
SADIE: Me neither.
ED: It's not so bad, really. It's humbling, but I like the effect it seems to have on people. It seems to make them more compassionate. There's a competitive market for suffering in the world. It's difficult to stand out from the handicapped and the homeless and the politically oppressed. Sometimes a little advertising helps remind people that you're a human being.
SADIE: It does make you look sort of cute, in a pathetic kind of way.
ED: Are you really married?
SADIE: Are you really married?
ED: What? You think I just made it up?
SADIE: I don't know. Some people just say they're married, you know, because maybe they think it's more respectable or something.
ED: I'm not one of those people.
SADIE: I didn't mean to imply anything. It's just that you act sort of weird.
ED: I act weird?
SADIE: Not weird, really. Worried, I guess. Secretive. Like you're worried I might find out something about you.
ED: You don't want to get involved with my problems.
SADIE: Maybe I do.
ED: Believe me, you don't.
SADIE: I didn't mean to pry. Well, maybe I did. I'll just put a band-aid on it.
ED: Would you like a drink? I'm going to have one. 1tt1He finds a bottle of wine.
SADIE: You're not supposed to mix wine with sleeping pills. It increases the amount of medicine that's absorbed into the bloodstream. 1tt1Ed searches for a corkscrew and starts to open the bottle.
ED: I need all the help I can get.
SADIE: It's dangerous.
ED: It's just wine. I'll only have a glass. 1tt1He offers her some and she nods. He pours her a glass. Sadie takes her glass into the living room. Ed downs his glass of wine and refills it quickly before following her.
SADIE: Are you working on anything new?
ED: No. I don't write anymore.
SADIE: Why not?
ED: I just don't have the time. I have to work all day. Time just slips by.
SADIE: I know what you mean. There's not enough time in the day.
ED: Not as much as there used to be.
SADIE: There used to be more?
ED: Yes. Before I had to work there was plenty of time.
SADIE: But you had all that stuff published.
ED: Sure, but it didn't pay very much. I had a lot of debts from school that needed to be paid off. And then, credit cards. And then I got married, bought a house. Life comes with all these expenses. And poetry just doesn't pay. I thought working at the University would at least give me summers off.
SADIE: Doesn't it?
ED: Not really. No. 1tt1There is a knock on the door. The idea that someone else might see them together makes it awkward for both of them. 1tt1Ed freezes for what seems like a long time; long enough for whoever it is to knock again.
ED: I better see who that is.
SADIE: 1tt1Ed goes over to the door and opens it cautiously. It is Eve's friend, SUSIE.
SUSIE: Hi, it's me.
ED: Oh, hi Susie. 1tt1She is about to walk in, when Ed blocks her way. She can see Sadie sitting at Ed's desk holding a glass of wine.
ED: Eve's not here.
SUSIE: Oh. She came back though, didn't she?
ED: No, she didn't.
SUSIE: Oh no. Can I come in?
ED: No. I'm busy right now. I called the police.
SUSIE: What did they say?
ED: They're working on it. You can call them if you want. 1tt1Ed finds Derm's card in his pocket and hands it to her.
SUSIE: Aren't you worried?
ED: Of course I'm worried. I'm just working right now. This girl is one of my students. She wanted some help on an assignment. She doesn't know anything about Eve being missing.
SUSIE: What happened to you?
ED: George Simian hit me.
SUSIE: You know him. It figures. 1tt1Susie starts crying. Ed stares at her helplessly, then goes back inside.
ED: You know him. It figures. 1tt1Susie starts crying. Ed stares at her helplessly, then goes back inside.
SUSIE: 1tt1Ed stops.
SUSIE: Can I come back later?
ED: It's late. I just took some sleeping pills. I haven't slept much since this all started. Why don't you come back tomorrow?
SUSIE: Good night, Susie. Ed walks back in, leaving Susie standing on the porch.
ED: Good night, Susie. Ed walks back in, leaving Susie standing on the porch.
SADIE: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
ED: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
SADIE: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
ED: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
SADIE: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
ED: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
SADIE: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
ED: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
SADIE: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
ED: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
SADIE: Ed comes over to her and kisses her.
SADIE: She is unresponsive at first.
ED: She is unresponsive at first.
SADIE: She is unresponsive at first.
ED: She is unresponsive at first.
SADIE: She is unresponsive at first.
ED: She is unresponsive at first.
SADIE: She is unresponsive at first.
SADIE: ( to herself ) 2t2What am I doing? They kiss for a minute, then Ed slips his hand under the back of Sadie's sweater. She kisses him again.
SADIE: He looks down and sees Sadie staring at him.
ED: Sadie gently pushes him back and starts to go down on him. Ed get more uptight.
SADIE: Sadie gently pushes him back and starts to go down on him. Ed get more uptight.
ED: She keeps trying until Ed is forced to push her away.
ED: Sadie turns away. She's upset.
SADIE: Sadie turns away. She's upset.
SADIE: Sadie gets up and puts on her shirt. She grabs the rest of her clothes and goes into the living room. Ed stares after her, listening to her finish dressing herself and then leave. The clock next to the bed is ticking loudly and the sound of the ticking continues of the next few scenes, as indicated.
ED: Sadie gets up and puts on her shirt. She grabs the rest of her clothes and goes into the living room. Ed stares after her, listening to her finish dressing herself and then leave. The clock next to the bed is ticking loudly and the sound of the ticking continues of the next few scenes, as indicated.
SADIE: Sadie gets up and puts on her shirt. She grabs the rest of her clothes and goes into the living room. Ed stares after her, listening to her finish dressing herself and then leave. The clock next to the bed is ticking loudly and the sound of the ticking continues of the next few scenes, as indicated.
ED: Sadie gets up and puts on her shirt. She grabs the rest of her clothes and goes into the living room. Ed stares after her, listening to her finish dressing herself and then leave. The clock next to the bed is ticking loudly and the sound of the ticking continues of the next few scenes, as indicated.
SADIE: Sadie gets up and puts on her shirt. She grabs the rest of her clothes and goes into the living room. Ed stares after her, listening to her finish dressing herself and then leave. The clock next to the bed is ticking loudly and the sound of the ticking continues of the next few scenes, as indicated.
WOMAN: ( O.S. ) you! Stay away from me! I'll scream! I am not screaming now! You think you're the only one? Yes, I do! I LOVE YOU! You never do that! You do not! You never do anything! You think that nothing's wrong! You think we live in paradise! This is what I think of this fucking house! There is the sound of things breaking.
WOMAN: ( O.S. ) IT'S NOT MY FAULT! IT'S NOT MY FAULT! THEN DON'T! I AM NOT! I LOVE YOU! FUCK YOU! I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU SAID THAT! STAY AWAY FROM ME! YOU RUINED MY LIFE! STAY AWAY FROM ME! STOP IT! SHUT UP! STAY AWAY FROM ME! NO! STOP IT! YOU SON OF A BITCH! HELP! HELP! This ends with a loud, terrifying shriek. It seems to echo around the room as Ed watches. Then the voices stop. Ed watches the window and sees a featureless man stick his head through the curtains to see if anybody is listening. Then he closes the window and curtains. The phone rings in the other room.
ED: Mr Saxon?
DERM: Mr Saxon?
ED: It's Detective Derm. I'm sorry to call you so late, but I thought you would want to hear this.
DERM: It's Detective Derm. I'm sorry to call you so late, but I thought you would want to hear this.
ED: I'm afraid I have some bad news.
DERM: I'm afraid I have some bad news.
ED: What is it?
DERM: It's your wife. We've found her.
ED: You found her.
DERM: We found her body.
ED: Yes, sir. In the woods, near George Simian's house, where we found her car. I'm afraid she's dead. Ed drops the phone. He walks trance-like into the hallway. He follows the noise into the -
DERM: Yes, sir. In the woods, near George Simian's house, where we found her car. I'm afraid she's dead. Ed drops the phone. He walks trance-like into the hallway. He follows the noise into the -
GEOFFREY: Hi. I wanted to see how you were getting along.
ED: Getting along?
GEOFFREY: I have to say, you don't look well.
ED: I'm not well.
GEOFFREY: Have you slept?
ED: I don't know. Maybe. It's difficult to tell. I have these lapses, but I'd hardly call it sleep.
GEOFFREY: Did you take the pills?
ED: The pills are fucking useless.
GEOFFREY: But you took them?
ED: I see. May I take your blood pressure?
GEOFFREY: I see. May I take your blood pressure?
ED: OK, fine. Geoffrey comes in and places his briefcase on the table. He takes a stethoscope and the rest of his blood pressure kit and starts to take Ed's blood pressure.
ED: I feel like a lab rat. Like one of those lab rats they drug up and study. You know what I mean?
GEOFFREY: You feel like a rat.
ED: They put them in a maze and they give them shocks and drugs and they see what they do. They try to prod them in the direction they want them to go.
GEOFFREY: Try to relax.
ED: I feel like a rat who took all the turns, took all the drugs, went down the right path and then, when I got to the end, they shocked me anyway, right up the sphincter, like it was all just a big joke. I guess they thought I'd be too drugged up to notice.
GEOFFREY: It's been a few days, hasn't it, since your wife disappeared?
ED: Days? Yes. I guess.
GEOFFREY: Has there been any word from the police?
ED: Haven't you talked to them?
GEOFFREY: No. But if you'd like me to, I will, on your behalf. They know me and I've been through this before.
ED: With others?
GEOFFREY: With others, and myself. My wife was taken from me about three years ago.
ED: What happened?
GEOFFREY: It was a similar situation to yours. The police found her car in the parking lot of a mall. They found her body about a week later in some woods nearby.
ED: She was murdered.
GEOFFREY: Did they ever catch the man who did it?
ED: Did they ever catch the man who did it?
GEOFFREY: Why would somebody do that?
ED: Why would somebody do that?
GEOFFREY: Sometimes a man, when faced with his own problems or inadequacies, takes it out on someone weaker than themselves.
ED: I'm sorry.
GEOFFREY: Do you feel responsible at all for your wife's disappearance?
ED: People often blame themselves for events that they have no control over, especially when the events seem so random and cruel. Action leading up to tragedy tend to become more significant. Details weigh on the conscience.
GEOFFREY: People often blame themselves for events that they have no control over, especially when the events seem so random and cruel. Action leading up to tragedy tend to become more significant. Details weigh on the conscience.
ED: I do seem to be having problems with my conscience.
GEOFFREY: I see.
ED: Do you think that's why I can't sleep?
GEOFFREY: Could be.
ED: Is there anything you can give me?
GEOFFREY: A prescription? For your conscience? Of course not.
ED: Then what's the point?
GEOFFREY: There are other ways I can be of help.
ED: A shoulder to cry on?
GEOFFREY: Would you like me to call the police? There might be some news.
ED: The police called last night, late last night. They found Eve's body.
GEOFFREY: Oh, no.
ED: They found her buried in the woods, near where they found her car.
GEOFFREY: I'm sorry. I didn't know. Geoffrey's watch alarm goes off. He looks at the time and then, habitually takes a shiny silver pillbox from his pocket. He takes two pills out.
GEOFFREY: Excuse me.
ED: I never knew I could feel so alone. Geoffrey takes a thermos from his briefcase, pours some hot tea into the lid and swallows the pills with a mouthful of tea.
GEOFFREY: He hasn't called since last night?
ED: It's been a while. Why don't you let me call him? Maybe there's some news. When Ed doesn't object, Geoffrey takes his address book from his briefcase, along with a cellular phone and dials the number.
GEOFFREY: It's been a while. Why don't you let me call him? Maybe there's some news. When Ed doesn't object, Geoffrey takes his address book from his briefcase, along with a cellular phone and dials the number.
GEOFFREY: Detective Derm, please. Hi, Charlie, it's Geoffrey. I'm over at Ed Saxon's house. Yeah. He was hoping to get some information on his wife. Uh-huh. Well, he said you called him last night and told him that you had found her body. Uh-huh. I see. In the woods, near where you found her car. I don't know. Yes. Well, I did give him something to help him sleep. Right. Yes. Then Geoffrey turns away from Ed and says a few words quietly, so that Ed can't hear. Then.
GEOFFREY: Yes. Yes. I'll tell him. Yes. OK. Bye. Geoffrey hangs up and turns back to Ed.
ED: He says he never called you last night.
GEOFFREY: He says he never called you last night.
ED: He told me to tell you to wait here for him; that he's coming over.
GEOFFREY: He told me to tell you to wait here for him; that he's coming over.
ED: I don't understand.
GEOFFREY: It is possible that you did fall asleep, that you dreamed the phone call. I have to say that I was surprised when you said you hadn't slept. Those pills are very effective.
ED: The pills. Yes. Maybe.
GEOFFREY: Still, this is better, isn't it? I mean, now there's still a chance. Your wife could still be.There's still hope.
ED: Yes. Hope. But why is he coming over here?
GEOFFREY: He said he had some questions to ask you.
ED: What questions?
GEOFFREY: He didn't say.
ED: If he had some questions to ask me, he could have asked me on the phone.
GEOFFREY: Calm down, Mr Saxon.
ED: Why did you turn away from me when you were talking to him? What did you say?
GEOFFREY: I said you were very tired and anxious and that you seemed to be under a great deal of stress.
ED: You're lying.
GEOFFREY: I have no reason to lie.
ED: Don't you?
GEOFFREY: No. Why do you think I'm lying?
ED: Because you're scared. Geoffrey does look scared. He has quickly packed up his briefcase.
GEOFFREY: Mr Saxon. Please. I understand you're under a lot of stress.
ED: You don't understand anything.
GEOFFREY: I came here to help you.
ED: Then help me. Please.
GEOFFREY: I've done all I can now. I'm sorry. I can't do any more.
ED: But, you'll come to see me again, won't you?
GEOFFREY: No. I don't think I will. Geoffrey leaves. Ed shuts the door. The phone rings. Ed picks it up.
ED: Is this Ed?
GEORGE: Is this Ed?
ED: What did you do to Eve?
GEORGE: What did you do to Eve?
ED: I didn't do anything.
GEORGE: I know you did. I saw her before she left work. We met in the parking lot, like we always did. She told me she was leaving you. She was going to tell you when she got home.
ED: You don't know anything about it.
GEORGE: Yes, I do. I know you. Eve talks about you. She tell me things.
ED: What things?
GEORGE: I know about the fights you have.
ED: She's my wife. We fight sometimes.
GEORGE: That's bullshit. I know what kind of a son of bitch you can be. She's told me.
ED: What don't you tell it to the police?
GEORGE: I did.
ED: You think she was some sort of angel? She was cheating on me.
GEORGE: I love her. I loved her. Ed listens to George break down.
ED: I'm sorry. There is a long pause.
GEORGE: It's not enough. George hangs up.
ED: I wanted to apologize.
SADIE: I wanted to apologize.
ED: I wanted to apologize.
SADIE: I wanted to apologize.
ED: No. Don't apologize. It was me.
SADIE: I shouldn't have left like that. I don't know what came over me.
ED: It was understandable, under the circumstances.
SADIE: I really wanted you to like me.
ED: I wonder if you'll still feel the same way when you find out what kind of person I really am.
SADIE: I'll still keep your poem on my wall.
ED: I think it's a beautiful poem. I really do. Are you still there?
SADIE: I think it's a beautiful poem. I really do. Are you still there?
ED: I wish things had turned out better. She hangs up. Ed stays on the phone, listening until the dial tone clicks back in. Then Ed hears a car pull up outside. He follows some quiet footsteps as they walk up to the front door. He sees the door knob turn quietly in the door. The door is locked. Ed approaches the door slowly, but suddenly, there is a crash against it. Someone is trying to knock the door down. The door is strong, and doesn't open, but the wall around it shakes. After a few seconds, there is another crash against the door. This time the wall shakes so much that Eve's picture, which hangs by the door, almost falls off its nail. Ed looks out of the window. The window is positioned facing the street, but not the porch, so he cannot see who it is, but he can see a car parked out front, with the door still open. Inside the car, there is a softball glove lying on the passenger seat, along with something that George Simian was wearing when we last saw George crashes against the door again. This time Eve's picture falls off the wall. It hits the ground and smashes, spreading broken glass around her picture. The door is starting to loosen around the lock and jamb.
SADIE: I wish things had turned out better. She hangs up. Ed stays on the phone, listening until the dial tone clicks back in. Then Ed hears a car pull up outside. He follows some quiet footsteps as they walk up to the front door. He sees the door knob turn quietly in the door. The door is locked. Ed approaches the door slowly, but suddenly, there is a crash against it. Someone is trying to knock the door down. The door is strong, and doesn't open, but the wall around it shakes. After a few seconds, there is another crash against the door. This time the wall shakes so much that Eve's picture, which hangs by the door, almost falls off its nail. Ed looks out of the window. The window is positioned facing the street, but not the porch, so he cannot see who it is, but he can see a car parked out front, with the door still open. Inside the car, there is a softball glove lying on the passenger seat, along with something that George Simian was wearing when we last saw George crashes against the door again. This time Eve's picture falls off the wall. It hits the ground and smashes, spreading broken glass around her picture. The door is starting to loosen around the lock and jamb.
ED: It wasn't me. Derm looks at Ed's hands, which are covered in blood.
ED: It wasn't me. Ed watches Derm looking at him. Then he notices, behind Derm, blood seeping over the rim of the bathtub. Ed turns to Eve's room, where the piano can still be heard. The camera continues on where Ed can't go: down the hallway to Eve's room. As it approaches, all the other noises fade out and the piano is all that we hear. Ed watches from his position in the hall so that it all seems like his point of view.
THE END: Writers : Michael Walker
