LARCH: I named him after the Greek writer. You know Homer, of course?
LARCH: I made his name "Wells" because I could tell he was very deep.
LARCH: "Good night, you Princes of Maine, you Kings of New England!"
ADOPTING MOTHER: There's something wrong with him! He never makes a sound.
ADOPTING FATHER: Do you think we could have a look at someone a little different?
HOMER: Don't be frightened. Everyone is nice here.
PREGNANT WOMAN: Do you live here?
HOMER: I just belong here.
LARCH: Homer, if you're going to stay at St. Cloud's, I expect you to be of
HOMER: Dr. Larch! Dr. Larch!
HOMER: We've got two new patients, one to
LARCH: First pregnancy?
HOMER: Yes, for both.
LARCH: ( sarcastically ) I presume you'd prefer handling the ( tiredly; an old topic ) All I said was, I don't want to perform abortions. I have no argument with you performing them.
HOMER: ( tiredly; an old topic ) All I said was, I don't want to perform abortions. I have no argument with you performing them.
LARCH: You know how to help these women how can you not feel obligated to help them when they can't get help anywhere else?
HOMER: One: it's illegal. Two: I didn't ask how to do ityou just showed me.
LARCH: What else could I have showed you, Homer? The only thing I can teach you is what I know! In every life, you've got to be of use.
LARCH: ( holds the cone ) Have you ever had ether, Dorothy?
DOROTHY: Once, when they took out my appendix.
ANGELA: ( looks for scar ) No one's touched your appendix.
DOROTHY: Whatever it was. the ether made me It won't make you sick this time, Dorothynot the way I do it, just a drop at a time.
LARCH: It won't make you sick this time, Dorothynot the way I do it, just a drop at a time.
DOROTHY: I can't pay for this, you knowI got no money.
LARCH: One day, Dorothy, if you have any money, a donation to the orphanage would be very much appreciated.
ANGELA: Only if you can afford it.
LARCH: ( holds the ether bottle ) Try to think of nothing, Dorothy.
HOMER: That was good, Carlathat was perfect. Everything's fine.
CARLA: I don't wanna see it!
EDNA: You don't have to see it, dear. Don't I don't even wanna know what sex it isdon't tell me!
CARLA: I don't even wanna know what sex it isdon't tell me!
HOMER: We won't tell you, Carla. You're going to be okay.
EDNA: Your baby's going to be okay, too.
CARLA: I don't wanna know!
LARCH: He's a big boy!
CARLA: Let me see him, for Christ's sakeI wanna see him.
LARCH: Would you mind having a look at
HOMER: There was no visible wound?
LARCH: No. The fetus was dead. Her uterus was virtually disintegratingmy stitches pulled right through the It looks like scurvy.
HOMER: ( mystified ) It looks like scurvy.
LARCH: ( derisively sarcastic ) Scurvy! Ah yes, the curse of the old- time sailor, suffering long periods at sea with no fresh fruits or vegetables. Homer, Dorothy isn't a She's a prostitute, isn't she?
ANGELA: She's a prostitute, isn't she?
HOMER: ( to Angela ) Did you look in her purse?
LARCH: ( frustrated ) I looked everywhere else!
ANGELA: It's called French Lunar Solution.
LARCH: It's not ergot, it's not pituitary extract, it's not oil of rue.
ANGELA: It claims to restore monthly It's obviously an aborticide.
HOMER: It's obviously an aborticide.
LARCH: Larch wets his finger with the stuff, then touches it to his
LARCH: ( spits ) Christ, it's oil of tansy!
HOMER: I don't know it.
LARCH: If you take enough of it, your intestines lose their ability to absorb Vitamin C.
HOMER: In other words, scurvy.
LARCH: Good boy. Good job. And you call yourself "not a doctor"! Keep an eye on hershe's in trouble. Take care of that, will you?
LARCH: Take care of that, will you?
BUSTER: I'll help you.
BUSTER: He sniffs that ether! I've seen him do it!
HOMER: It's because he's too tired to sleep. He has to.
BUSTER: He smells like he could put you to He's a doctor, Busterdoctors smell like ether.
HOMER: He's a doctor, Busterdoctors smell like ether.
BUSTER: You're a doctor, Homeryou don't smell like ether.
HOMER: I'm not a doctor. I haven't been to medical schoolI haven't even been to high school!
BUSTER: But you've studied with the old man for years!
HOMER: I'm not a doctor!
BUSTER: I'm sorry, Homer.
LARCH: Fuzzy is not uncommon. I tell you, there's something about the premature babies of alcoholic mothers. They seem susceptible to every damn thing that comes along.
HOMER: I haven't read that.
LARCH: I haven't, either. But you will. The morons who write the books should do a little research here.
HOMER: But isn't Fuzzy just. well, When doesn't he have bronchitis? I wouldn't call his bronchial infections "underdeveloped." Would you?
LARCH: When doesn't he have bronchitis? I wouldn't call his bronchial infections "underdeveloped." Would you?
HOMER: What is it, Mary Agnes?
MARY AGNES: ( garbled because of her tongue )
HOMER: Did you bite it?
MARY AGNES: I don't remember.
HOMER: ( dismissively ) It looks like you bit itit'll be all right.
MARY AGNES: Maybe I was kissing someone and he bit me.
HOMER: ( looks at her tongue again ) No, you did it yourself. Maybe in your sleep.
MARY AGNES: I must have been dreaming of kissing
HOMER: Story time, Fuzzy!
EDNA: "Oh Lord, support us all the day
EDNA: "Then in Thy mercy grant us save lodging, and holy rest, and peace at the last."
LARCH: "A dog, which had lain concealed till now, ran backwards and forwards on the parapet with a dismal howl, and collecting himself for a spring, jumped for the dead man's shoulders."
LARCH: "Missing his aim, he fell into a ditch, turning completely over as he went; and striking his head against a stone, dashed his brains out.
LARCH: Good night, you Princes of Maine! You Kings of New England!
FUZZY: ( in his breathing tent ) Why does Dr. Larch do tht every ( about seven ) Maybe to scare us.
CURLY: ( about seven ) Maybe to scare us.
COPPERFIELD: ( about eleven ) No, you jerk.
STEERFORTH: ( about nine ) Dr. Larch loves us!
FUZZY: But why does he do that?
BUSTER: He does it because we like it.
MARY AGNES: Buster is mine. You two get Copperfield and Curly. Nobody touches
EDNA: Stop it! No fighting! Share the They're our snowballs! They stole They attacked usjust like the Japs!
BUSTER: ( mouth full of snow ) They're our snowballs! They stole They attacked usjust like the Japs!
MARY AGNES: They attacked usjust like the Japs!
EDNA: Listen to you, Fuzzy! You've been running. You get to the shower!
MARY AGNES: I know the typethey'll take one of the babies.
ANGELA: Wilbur, the adopting couple is waiting in your office.
LARCH: ( irritated ) Life is waiting.
LARCH: Where's the name sheet?
HOMER: Nobody's named this one yet.
LARCH: It's my turn!
LARCH: Henceforth you shall be. Little
HOMER: He doesn't like it. He's a boy, That's why.
LARCH: Can't a boy be a Dorrit?
HOMER: I don't think so.
LARCH: You do it then.
HOMER: Henceforth you shall be. Little I'm not crazy about the "Little."
LARCH: I'm not crazy about the "Little."
HOMER: Okay, he's just a Wilbur then.
LARCH: We haven't had a Wilbur here in a year or so, have we? We used to have
COPPERFIELD: They picked Hazel! The idiots chose
MARY AGNES: If people want to adopt one of us, they should have to take the oldest Please, Mary Agnes! This is Hazel's special daydon't make her feel Hazel's practically the youngest of us. She should be the last to leave!
EDNA: Please, Mary Agnes! This is Hazel's special daydon't make her feel Hazel's practically the youngest of us. She should be the last to leave!
MARY AGNES: Hazel's practically the youngest of us. She should be the last to leave!
CLARA: At least Hazel can talk. Usually they take one of the stupid babies.
MARY AGNES: They take the babies so they won't ever have to tell them that they were orphans!
HAZEL: ( begins to cry ) I'm not a baby!
MARY AGNES: If you cry, Hazel, they'll just send you back.
EDNA: Mary Agnes, that's not true!
MARY AGNES: That's what they did to me!
EDNA: You wanted to come backthat's why you cried. You can cry if you feel like it, Hazel. You cry as much as you want.
LARCH: It is strictly for our orphans' sake that I destroy any record of their natural mothers. Of course they will, one day, want to know. But orphans, especially, should look forward to their futures. Not back to their
HOMER: Hi, Curly. You going somewhere?
CURLY: I thought they might take me.
HOMER: They wanted a girl.
CURLY: Nobody ever wants me!
HOMER: You're one of the best, Curlywe couldn't let just anyone take you.
CURLY: Dr. Larch wouldn't let just anyone take any of us!
HOMER: That's true.
CURLY: Nobody's asked for me, have they?
HOMER: Nobody special enough, Curly.
CURLY: You mean somebody asked?
HOMER: Only the right people can have you,
EDNA: Let us be happy for Hazel. Hazel has found a family. Good night, Hazel.
THE GIRLS: Good night, Hazel! Good night, Hazel! Good night, Hazel!
LARCH: I was dreaming about you. How beautiful you were!
ANGELA: You weren't dreaming about me.
LARCH: I was!
ANGELA: Then I wasn't beautiful.
LARCH: You were! You are! It was fantastic.
ANGELA: It was just the ether, Wilbur.
HOMER: Are you okay? Can I get you anything?
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN: No one but me ever put a hand on me, to feel that baby. Don't you want to touch it or put your ear down to it?
HOMER: Homer touches the woman's belly.
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN: Put your ear there. Go on.
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN: You shouldn't have a baby if there's no one who wants to put his face right there!
DISTRAUGHT WOMAN: Stay right there. Right where you are. Stay right here. Right here.
BUSTER: Do you ever think about leaving this place to go find them?
BUSTER: I mean your parents.
HOMER: I know who you mean. I think about leaving here, but not to find them.
BUSTER: Why not?
HOMER: Whoever they were, they didn't do any of the things parents are supposed to do. Dr. Larch did those things, and Nurse Edna, and Nurse Angela.
BUSTER: Yeah. But sometimes I wish I could meet mine, anyway.
HOMER: What for, Buster? What would you do if you met them?
BUSTER: Uh. I'd like to show them that I can cook, a little.
HOMER: You cook very well!
BUSTER: And that I can drive a truck!
HOMER: ( laughing ) Better than I can!
BUSTER: Sometimes I want to meet them so I can kill them. Just sometimes.
BUSTER: Homer, you know I would never kill anyoneyou know I wouldn't.
HOMER: I know. I think Mary Agnes could kill someone.
BUSTER: I think Mary Agnes could kill someone.
HOMER: I doubt it. She's just an.
HOMER: .emotional girl.
BUSTER: What's she so emotional about?
HOMER: ( shrugs ) I don't know. She got left here, like the rest of us, didn't she?
FUZZY: ( coughing ) He thinks she's his mother!
COPPERFIELD: He doesn't think she's his mother, He does so! He loves her!
FUZZY: He does so! He loves her!
CARLA: How could she be his mother?
LARCH: ( a harsh whisper ) They want to replace me! The Board of Trustees wants to replace me!
ANGELA: ( whispering back ) They just want you to hire some new Some new things would be useful. I don't need any "new help."
LARCH: Some new things would be useful. I don't need any "new help."
LARCH: Homer! I need you!
LARCH: I thought you took care of this. It always breaks in the same place. It's your splice, isn't it?
HOMER: ( angry ) It's your splice! You blame me for
LARCH: Angela, we need a new movie, a new projector, a new typewriterthat's what they should replace around here!
EDNA: We have a delivery. Imminent, in my
LARCH: Homer, would you get this one?
HOMER: She's a patient, right? She should see a doctor.
LARCH: ( trying to stay calm ) Homer, you are a skilled and gifted surgeon. You have near-prefect obstetrical and gynecological
HOMER: I just mean I'd rather fix the movie.
LARCH: Sure. Okay. You splice. I'll deliver.
FUZZY: Homer. doesn't King Kong think the woman is his mother?
HOMER: Uh, surethat's what Kong thinks, all right.
FUZZY: That's why Kong loves her!
HOMER: I thought it was my turn.
LARCH: It is. I'll get this. You go ahead.
HOMER: ( reading ) "Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show."
HOMER: "I was a posthumous child. My father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months, when mine opened on it."
FUZZY: ( whispers to Larch ) His father's dead, right?
LARCH: ( whispering back ) That's right, Fuzz.
FUZZY: Is your father dead?
LARCH: ( nods, whispers ) Cirrhosisit's a disease of the Liver killed him?
FUZZY: Liver killed him?
LARCH: Alcohol killed himhe drank himself to death.
FUZZY: But did you know him?
LARCH: Barely. It hardly mattered that I knew him.
FUZZY: Did you know your mother better?
LARCH: ( nods, still whispers ) She's dead now, too. She was a nanny.
FUZZY: What's a nanny do?
LARCH: She looks after other people's Did you grow up around here?
FUZZY: Did you grow up around here?
LARCH: No. She was an immigrant.
FUZZY: What's an immigrant?
LARCH: Someone not from Maine.
EDNA: No one's going to hurt you, dear. Have you come to visit us? We have beds, you know. Have you had any breakfast? What's your name?
EDNA: Her temperature is a hundred and How old are you, dear? Thirteen?
LARCH: ( very gently ) How old are you, dear? Thirteen?
LARCH: Twelve? Are you twelve, dear? You have to tell me how long you've been pregnant. Three months?
LARCH: Are you four months pregnant?
HOMER: ( whispers to Larch ) She's at least five.
LARCH: Dear child, it won't hurt when I look. I'm just going to look.
LARCH: Tell me: you haven't done something to yourself, have you?
LARCH: Did you go to someone else?
HOMER: Stuck what inside you?
LARCH: ( to the twelve-year- old ) Listen, you've been very brave. I'm going to put you to sleepyou won't feel it anymore. You've been brave
EDNA: That's a heavy sedation.
LARCH: You bet it's a heavy sedation! The fetus is unexpelled, her uterus is punctured, she has acute peritonitis, and there's a foreign object. I think it's a crochet hook.
LARCH: ( to Homer ) If she'd come to you four months ago and asked you for a simple D and C, what would you have decided to do? Nothing? This is what doing nothing gets you, Homer. It means that someone else is going to do the jobsome moron who doesn't know
LARCH: I wish you'd come to me, dear child. You should have come to me, instead.
BUSTER: What'd she die of?
LARCH: ( inhales deeply ) She died of secrecy, she died of
LARCH: ( to Homer ) If you expect people to be responsible for their children, you have to give them the right to decide whether or not to have children. Wouldn't you
HOMER: How about expecting people to be responsible enough to control themselves to begin with?
LARCH: How about this child? You expect her to be responsible?
HOMER: I didn't mean her. I'm talking about. adults. You know who I mean!
HOMER: Larch says nothing. Homer gives him a look.
LARCH: ( smiling ) It's just a marvel to me that you still have such high expectations of I'm happy I amuse you.
HOMER: I'm happy I amuse you.
LARCH: ( to Homer ) Try to look at it this way. What choice does Buster have? What are his options? Nobody will ever adopt ( Buster considers this )
HOMER: Try to look at it this way. Buster and I are sitting right here beside you. We could have ended up in the
LARCH: Happy to be alive, under any circumstancesis that your point?
HOMER: Happy to be alive. I guess so.
CANDY: So many children. Are they all Well, this is an orphanage.
WALLY: Well, this is an orphanage.
CANDY: Oh, they're getting into the car. watch your fingers!
CURLY: I'm the best.
CANDY: ( sweetly ) You are?
WALLY: ( good with kids ) The best? Wow! The best at what?
CURLY: I'm the best one.
CANDY: Here, blow.
CURLY: I really am the best, I just have a cold.
CANDY: Blow! There, I bet that feels better.
CURLY: ( sniffs )
LARCH: Curly, come here!
CURLY: ( to Larch ) Tell them! I'm the one.
HOMER: ( to Wally ) I'm sorry. They're not used to seeing a car like this.
WALLY: It's okayI don't mind.
WALLY: We brought some chocolates for the Chocolates. How thoughtful. I'm the best! Tell them!
LARCH: ( witheringly ) Chocolates. How thoughtful. I'm the best! Tell them!
CURLY: I'm the best! Tell them!
LARCH: You're the best, Curly.
HOMER: So, Mrs.
CANDY: Candy. Candy Kendall.
WALLY: Wally. Wally Worthington.
HOMER: ( to Candy ) How many months are you?
CANDY: ( whispers )
WALLY: So, now, uh. you're not. I mean, do you do the
HOMER: No. Dr. Larch will be performing the Ah, well. okay. Good! I just
WALLY: ( relieved ) Ah, well. okay. Good! I just
EDNA: Excuse me, Homer. Dr. Larch said this one is your turn. Oh, dearI'm sorry. I meant the circumcision. That boy you delivered on Tuesday.
EDNA: Oh, dearI'm sorry. I meant the circumcision. That boy you delivered on Tuesday.
HOMER: Sure. Fine. Have you prepped him?
EDNA: I'll get started.
WALLY: I think it was the etherthe smell got to me. God. This is all my fault.
EDNA: ( over the din ) Steerforth got into the pantryhe's eaten all the pie dough.
CURLY: ( sobbing ) He wasn't sharing it, either.
EDNA: He's down the hall, throwing up.
HOMER: What kind of plane are you flying?
WALLY: A B-24 Liberator.
HOMER: Have you enlisted?
WALLY: Have you enlisted?
HOMER: They wouldn't take me. I'm Class IV I've got a heart defect.
WALLY: Really! Is it serious?
HOMER: No, it's not serious. I'm just not supposed to get excited. You know no strain, no stress. I try to keep calm all the time.
WALLY: Oh, well. I don't imagine there's any strain or stress around here!
WALLY: How is she doing?
LARCH: Just fine.
CANDY: ( slurred speech ) Boy or girl?
ANGELA: It was nothingit's all over.
WALLY: It's all over, honey.
CANDY: ( slurred speech ) I would like to have a baby, one day. I really would.
ANGELA: Why, of courseyou can have as many children as you want. I'm sure you'll have very beautiful children.
LARCH: You'll have Princes of Maine! You'll have Kings of New England!
LARCH: I suggest you find yourself some fresh air, Lieutenant.
HOMER: ( distracted ) Uh. it's the end of October.
FUZZY: Is that soon?
STEERFORTH: That's a few months away, Fuzz. I still don't feel so good.
FUZZY: ( disappointed ) Oh. It's the best time! How come we only get pumpkins once a year?
HOMER: Don't get too excited, Fuzzy.
FUZZY: Why can't we have pumpkins for Christmas, too? We don't get any good presents at Christmas, anyway.
HOMER: Has anyone offered you anything to Actually, someone did. I just didn't think I could eat anything.
WALLY: Actually, someone did. I just didn't think I could eat anything.
HOMER: ( trying to sound casual ) I wonder if you might give me a ride.
WALLY: Sure! Be glad to! Uh. a ride where?
HOMER: ( unprepared ) Where are you going?
WALLY: We're heading back to Cape Kenneth.
HOMER: Cape Kenneth.
HOMER: That sounds fine.
LARCH: ( sarcastic ) Doubtless you'll let me know what immensely worthwhile or at least useful thing it is that you find to do.
HOMER: ( restrained ) I wasn't intending to leave here in order to be entirely uselessI expect I'll find some ways to be of use.
LARCH: In other parts of the world, I suppose there are other ways.
HOMER: ( still restrained ) Of course.
LARCH: ( blows up ) Are you really so stupid that you imagine you're going to find a more gratifying life? What you're going to find is people like the poor people who get left hereonly nobody takes care of them as well! And you won't be able to take care of them, either. There's no taking care of anybody not out there!
HOMER: ( feeling trapped ) You know I'm grateful for everything you've done for me.
LARCH: ( calmly ) I don't need your gratitude.
HOMER: ( exasperated ) I don't need thisI know all about my condition.
LARCH: It's your heartyou ought to take it with you.
EDNA: Going where? Does he have a plan of some kind?
ANGELA: Will he be back soon?
LARCH: I don't know! He's just leaving you're the one who says he needs to see the world! That's what he'll dohe'll see the world!
EDNA: ( stunned ) He's leaving.
ANGELA: He'll need clothes. some money.
LARCH: Let him try to make some money! That's part of "seeing the world," isn't it?
ANGELA: ( angrily ) Oh, just stop it! You knew this was going to happen. He's a young man.
LARCH: ( almost breaking ) He's still a boyout in the world, he's still a boy.
ANGELA: Just find him some clothes, Wilbur. He could use some clothes.
LARCH: ( gently, almost reverently ) I think these will fit you.
EDNA: You'll need some moneyjust a little something, until you find a job.
CANDY: ( groggy ) I'm okayI can walk.
WALLY: I don't want you to walkI want to carry you. Should I put the top up? It might get cold.
CANDY: Nokeep it down. I want to feel the
CANDY: ( still groggy ) Coming with us? It's always a good idea to have a doctor along for the
HOMER: I have to go, Curly. I'm sorry. I couldn't find Buster. Will you tell him.
ANGELA: Let us be happy for Homer Wells.
WALLY: Actually, the Army has given me leave twice. First when my father died, and now I'm on leave to help my mother I'm just trying to get her ready for the harvest. She's no farmer. Apples were my dad's business. And with the war on, she's short on pickers.
CANDY: ( to Homer ) Wally thinks apples are boring.
WALLY: ( to Homer ) I never said they were boring.
CANDY: You said, "Apples aren't exactly Well, they aren't.
WALLY: Well, they aren't.
HOMER: I think I'd probably like the apple You're a little overqualified, aren't No, I'm not. I need a job.
WALLY: You're a little overqualified, aren't No, I'm not. I need a job.
HOMER: No, I'm not. I need a job.
WALLY: The only jobs are picking jobs. Picking apples is truly boring.
CANDY: There! You said it was boring.
WALLY: Well, picking them is! It's about as exciting as. walking!
HOMER: Is your family in the apple business, No, but I work thereI like it. My dad's a lobsterman.
CANDY: No, but I work thereI like it. My dad's a lobsterman.
HOMER: I've never seen a lobster.
CANDY: I've never seen the ocean, either.
HOMER: I've never seen the ocean, either.
WALLY: ( amazed ) You've never seen the ocean?
WALLY: That's not funny. that's serious.
CANDY: I couldn't have a baby with someone who's leaving meI didn't know what else to do!
HOMER: I know.
CANDY: He's going to be dropping bombs on Mandalay! They're going to be shooting at him!
HOMER: Where's Mandalay?
CANDY: I can't have a baby alone. I don't even know if he's coming back!
HOMER: I can't have a baby alone. I don't even know if he's coming back!
CANDY: I can't have a baby alone. I don't even know if he's coming back!
HOMER: I understand.
WALLY: Honey, honey. of course I'll come
CANDY: You don't know, Wally. You have no
CANDY: Stay away from me!
HOMER: ( strictly medical ) This is all normal. Don't worry. The abortion procedure. it affects you. It's the ether, too. It'll take a little time.
WALLY: I don't have any time. There's a It's all very normal. You ought to cut that shit outit's terrible for you.
HOMER: It's all very normal. You ought to cut that shit outit's terrible for you.
WALLY: You ought to cut that shit outit's terrible for you.
CANDY: I'm a little worried about the. .about how much bleeding is okay.
HOMER: It should taper off tomorrow, but it can come back again. You have cramps? They'll ease up, almost entirely. As long as the bleeding isn't heavy, it's normal.
WALLY: ( meaning the football ) Give it here! What was that?! Come over here!
WALLY: What was that?! Come over here!
WALLY: It's called the Burma run. It's about a seven-hour round-trip flight between India and China.
HOMER: "Burma run" because you fly over And over the Himalayas. That's called flying over the hump.
WALLY: And over the Himalayas. That's called flying over the hump.
WALLY: I've got thirty-five minutes to climb to fifteen thousand feetthat's the first mountain pass.
HOMER: What lousy luckI mean your orders. to draw an assignment like that!
WALLY: ( conspiratorially ) Actually, I volunteered.
HOMER: It's the flying, right? You love to fly, don't you?
WALLY: I love the bombing, too. But there's also the Himalayasthey have the most wicked air currents in the world. I wouldn't miss flying there for
WALLY: Uh, look. if you're serious about wanting a job, picking apples isn't that boring.
HOMER: Oh, I would love that, Wally.
CANDY: I guess I'll see you around the orchards. Thanks for everything.
HOMER: Sure. I'll see you around.
CANDY: ( whispering ) I love you, Wally.
WALLY: I love you, too. See you tomorrow.
WALLY: Come on. You have to meet my mom. If it comes up, I've been at a wedding. That's where I met you, at the wedding.
WALLY: This is Homer Wellshe's the most overqualified apple picker you'll ever meet, but he's dying to learn the apple business.
OLIVE: How do you do, Homer Wells.
HOMER: How do you do.
OLIVE: Were you a friend of the bride or the groom?
WALLY: Homer is everybody's friend, Mom. the bride's, the groom's, mine, Candy's, everybody's.
OLIVE: Well, perhaps you'll come to dinner,
WALLY: Not tonight, Momhe's got to meet Mr. Rose!
JACK: You already used up the hot water!
MUDDY: You're usin' my soap, ain't you?
JACK: I ain't usin' no soapit's too cold to bother with soap!
MUDDY: There ain't never enough hot water, soap or no soap.
WALLY: They're migrants.
HOMER: ( no clue ) Yes. They pick fruit, all kinds. They travel up and down the coast with the seasons. ( leaning close to Homer ) The trick to Mr. Rose is, you have to let him be the boss.
WALLY: Yes. They pick fruit, all kinds. They travel up and down the coast with the seasons. The trick to Mr. Rose is, you have to let him be the boss.
ROSE ROSE: That sink's backed up again, Wally. I thought you was gonna get me a Rose, this is HomerHomer, this is Mr. Rose's daughter, Rose.
WALLY: Rose, this is HomerHomer, this is Mr. Rose's daughter, Rose.
HOMER: Rose Rose?
ROSE ROSE: Pretty, ain't it? You a plumber?
WALLY: No, noHomer is a new picker. He's going to stay here with you.
ROSE ROSE: ( suspiciously ) He's stayin' here?
MR. ROSE: That daughter of mine sure is Miss Hospitality, ain't she, Wally?
MR. ROSE: You got lots of experience pickin', I suppose.
WALLY: Homer's got no experience, Arthur, but he's smarter then I am. He's a fast learner.
MR. ROSE: This is history. Ain't that what you're sayin', Wally? I guess we makin' history. havin' this young man stay with us!
WALLY: ( over his shoulder ) See you later.
HOMER: So. What should I do now?
MR. ROSE: Out back, there's a shed. It's just a mess. If that shed was better organized, I could put my truck in
MR. ROSE: If you're as smart as Wally says, you know you sometimes gotta do one job before you do another.
MR. ROSE: You did a good job with that shed,
PEACHES: What kind of a name is Homer?
HOMER: It's the name of a cat. Originally. Well, not originally.
MR. ROSE: Now, nowwe all got names, sensible or not. Peaches is from Georgia, where we met him pickin' peaches. He's still better with peaches than hs is with Jack here is new. And this here is Hero, 'cause he was a hero of some kind or other once. Ain't that right,
MR. ROSE: And this here sensitive-lookin' fella is Muddy. The less said about Muddy, the better. Ain't that right, Muddy?
ROSE ROSE: What's that?
HOMER: It's just my heart.
ROSE ROSE: What you got a picture of your heart
HOMER: There's a little something wrong with it. Just this part herethe right ventricle. It's slightly So what?
ROSE ROSE: So what?
HOMER: Yes, so what. It's nothing serious, really. Just a small defect.
MR. ROSE: It's big enough to keep you out of the war, I suppose. Ain't that right?
HOMER: Rose Rose picks up the book that Homer has put on the bed. She studies the cover; it's "Great Expectations" by Charles Dickens. She puts it down, restlessly.
MR. ROSE: They told me I was too old to serve.
PEACHES: They told Muddy his feet was too
MUDDY: ( to Peaches ) And you was "generally unfit," as I
HOMER: Do you like to read?
ROSE ROSE: ( embarrassed ) I can't read. Nobody taught me.
ROSE ROSE: ( pointing to the page ) What does it say there?
HOMER: ( reading ) "I looked at the stars, and considered how awful it would be for a man to turn his face to them as he froze to death, and see no help or pity in all the glittering multitude."
HOMER: ( to Rose Rose )
JACK: Since you're the one who's smart enough to read. what's this?
HOMER: It's a list of rules, it seems.
ROSE ROSE: Whose rules?
MUDDY: They're for us, I suppose.
JACK: Go on and read 'em, Homer.
HOMER: "One. Please don't smoke in bed."
ROSE ROSE: It's too late for that one!
MR. ROSE: ( uncharacteristically blunt ) Stop it, Homer. They aren't our rules. We didn't write them. I don't see no reason to read them.
HOMER: Rose Rose stomps back to her bed. Her father absently snaps his towel.
WALLY: Remember this! In the morning, when the tall grass is wet, you can make the Jeep slide on the grass. Can you feel it? It's almost like flying.
WALLY: It's almost like flying.
HOMER: What about the trees?
WALLY: The trees are flakantiaircraft fire from those geeks on the ground.
WALLY: ( defensively to Candy ) I was just showing Homer the orchards. kind of a geography ( good-naturedly ) I know what you've been doing.
CANDY: ( good-naturedly ) I know what you've been doing.
CANDY: ( to Wally ) You've been giving him a flying ( teasing her ) He loved it! ( to Homer ) Didn't you?
WALLY: ( teasing her ) He loved it! ( to Homer ) Didn't you?
HOMER: Yeah, it was great. He thinks people like to get whacked by branches.
CANDY: ( laughing to Homer ) He thinks people like to get whacked by branches.
WALLY: Homer liked it! Didn't you?
HOMER: Yeah, sure. There's no stress or strain around here.
VERNON: What's wrong with you?
MR. ROSE: That's Vernon. You best stay away from him until he gets to know you betterthen you best stay away from him more!
MR. ROSE: Out lieutenant's calling you, Homer. Mind your ass.
WALLY: ( to Homer ) You getting along okay?
BIG DOT: Where is that Candy?
FLORENCE: Did she leave you, Wally?
DEBRA: Who's the boy? Wally, you can marry Debra if Candy leaves you!
FLORENCE: Wally, you can marry Debra if Candy leaves you!
BIG DOT: Wally's gonna marry me if Candy leaves him!
DEBRA: You can marry all three of us, Wally!
FLORENCE: We can take turns.
WALLY: You girls make it hard for a guy to go off to war. But I'll leave my best man here to pinch-hit for me.
WALLY: Uh. I'm shipping out sooner than I thought. I just wanted to be sure you were settled inand happy enough, Are you bored stiff? Or can you stick it out for a bit?
HOMER: Uh. actually, picking apples is as much excitement as I want for a while. I'm grateful for the job.
WALLY: ( his hand on Homer's shoulder ) You're the one who's helping me, Homer. You're going to give my mom a little peace of mind while I'm gone. Candy, too.
HOMER: Well, sure. that's good, then. All I mean is, I'm lucky I met you.
WALLY: I don't think so, Homer. I'm the lucky one.
WALLY: ( more serious ) You want to fight about it?
MR. ROSE: You pickin' more cider apples then anythin' else. Them drops is good only for cider. And you pickin' the stems with the apples only half the time. They good only for cider, too if you don't pick them stems. The rule is, you wanna pick the apple with the stem, Homer. And see here. see that bud that's just above the stem? That's the bud for next year's applethat's called the spur. You pick the spur, you pickin' two years in oneyou pickin' next year's apple 'fore it have a chance to grow. You leave that on the branch, you hear?
MR. ROSE: ( approvingly ) That's better. I can tell you got yourself some education. Them's good hands you got, Homer. Them hands you got, they know what they're doin' ain't that right?
HOMER: I guess so.
ANGELA: Wilbur, you should read this.
ANGELA: It's from the Board. Another letter.
ANGELA: ( quoting the letter ) Uh. "merely suggesting that some new blood might benefit you all. someone with new ideas in the obstetrical and pediatric fields." ( she looks up at Larch ) I think they're just testing some ideas for our next meeting.
EDNA: Dr. Holtz seems nice. I think he only wants to help.
LARCH: He is a goddamn psychiatristof course he wants to "help"! He'd be happy if he could help commit me!
ANGELA: It's that Mrs. Goodhall you have to be careful of, Wilbur.
LARCH: One has to be more than "careful" of Mrs. Goodhallshe has sufficient Christian zeal to start her own country! I'd like to give her a little So what are you going to do?
EDNA: So what are you going to do?
LARCH: "Homer Wells, born Portland, Maine, March 2, 1915."
EDNA: Homer was born here, in, what was it, 1922?
LARCH: ".graduated Bowdoin College, 1935, and Harvard School of Medicine, 1939."
ANGELA: This is your life story, Wilbur! You just changed the dates!
LARCH: "An internship and two years of training at the Boston Lying-in, South End Branch. For his age, he was judged an accomplished gynecological obstetrical surgeon; he is also experienced in pediatric You invented him! You've completely made his up!
ANGELA: You invented him! You've completely made his up!
LARCH: Don't you understand? The board is going to replace me! That's what the "new blood" is for!
EDNA: You mean they'll replace you with someone who won't perform abortions.
LARCH: ( sarcastically ) Well, we can only guess about that, Edna. They are against the law.
ANGELA: These credentials are against the We all know who trained Homerhis credentials are as good as mine are. Don't you be holy to me about the law! What has the law done for any of us here?
LARCH: We all know who trained Homerhis credentials are as good as mine are. Don't you be holy to me about the law! What has the law done for any of us here?
LARCH: ( points at file ) So here is my candidate. What do you But what about school records? Homer doesn't have any diplomas.
EDNA: But what about school records? Homer doesn't have any diplomas.
LARCH: He will have them, Edna.
ANGELA: Oh, Wilbur, I don't know. We don't even know where he is!
MR. ROSE: Here he is.
MR. ROSE: Where's your manners? Make room for Homer, so's he can enjoy the view.
MUDDY: What view?
HOMER: Are we supposed to be up here? The rules said.
MR. ROSE: Homer, you the only one who's read them rules, so you the only one who feels like he's doin' somethin' wrong.
MUDDY: What view?
MR. ROSE: Well, Muddy, we can look at all these angry stars Homer's been readin' to us about.
JACK: ( gesturing toward the Worthington farmhouse ) I bet the view looks better from the You think so, Jack? Well. I wouldn't want to be in that Wally's shoes ( playfully, teasing him ) Daddy, I'd like to be in that Wally's shoes every night.
MR. ROSE: You think so, Jack? Well. I wouldn't want to be in that Wally's shoes Daddy, I'd like to be in that Wally's shoes every night.
ROSE ROSE: ( playfully, teasing him ) Daddy, I'd like to be in that Wally's shoes every night.
MR. ROSE: ( teasing her back ) You lucky you in your work boots tonight, girl.
ROSE ROSE: What's lucky about that?
MR. ROSE: You know where that Wally is tonight, darlin'? He's up there in them angry He's flyin' all around up there. with them Japs shooting at him.
MR. ROSE: They all on board, Mrs. Worthin'ton.
OLIVE: Thank you, Arthur. And how is our Homer working out?
MR. ROSE: Oh, he's a smart young man, most of the timeWally was right about him.
OLIVE: No rotten apples?
MR. ROSE: ( it's an old way of speaking that they have ) No, nonot this year. Well. maybe we got one, but it ain't Homer.
OLIVE: Rose. dear girl, I'm sure I can find you some other clothes. You must have some things that would fit her.
CANDY: I have a ton of things that would fit you.
MR. ROSE: Now, now, Candythis girl don't need no more clothes, not for pickin'.
OLIVE: ( charming ) Arthur, there's no such thing as a young woman who's got all the clothes she needs.
CANDY: So. Not bored yet?
HOMER: I'm never bored! It's all very. different for me. here.
HOMER: Uh. have you been feeling okay?
CANDY: When I'm not thinking about Wally. I'm not good at being alone. Oh, goodness. You meant. yes, I'm fine. I. .I don't suppose you've seen a lobster yet.
CANDY: ( more seriously ) You have to come to my dad's lobster pound and see one, then.
HOMER: Homer looks toward the pickers sitting on the flatbed when he hears the tractor start. Candy follows his gaze.
HOMER: I better go.
CANDY: I don't think Mr. Rose would leave without you.
CANDY: ( laughing )
CANDY: ( calling ) Come next week!
PEACHES: Whoalook at that Homer! He's gettin' all dressed up for supper tonight!
ROSE ROSE: He ain't gettin' dressed to have supper with us, Peaches!
MR. ROSE: ( to the plumber ) Don't let us make you nervous or nothin'we know you gotta job to Yeah, we can wait all night for the water to come back onyou just go on and take your time.
MUDDY: Yeah, we can wait all night for the water to come back onyou just go on and take your time.
RAY: Homer looks uncertain.
RAY: They're the garbage-eaters of the ocean's floor. The seagulls clean up the shore. The lobsters clean up the bottom of the sea.
HOMER: They eat everything?
RAY: Everything that falls to the bottom.
CANDY: It's time somebody ate them.
RAY: ( to Candy ) I was lookin' for Wally's letter. I was gonna show it to Homer. ( to Homer ) They made him a captain already Captain Worthington!
CANDY: Daddy, it's a letter to me.
RAY: He mentions Homer, too, you know.
CANDY: ( awkwardly ) Wally said to say, "Hello."
HOMER: ( equally awkward ) Oh! That's. nice.
RAY: ( to Homer ) Wally said the most spectacular hits were in the oil fields at Yenangyat.
HOMER: A movie outside?
CANDY: Yes. But it's closed all the time now, because of the blackout.
HOMER: People watched the movies in their When they watched at all. Do you like movies?
CANDY: ( smiling ) When they watched at all. Do you like movies?
HOMER: Yes! I've only seen one, though.
CANDY: You've seen only one movie? Which "King Kong". It's really good.
HOMER: "King Kong". It's really good.
CANDY: I haven't seen "King Kong" since I was a kid!
ANGELA: That's a pie apple, Wilbur. Homer said you're not supposed to eat it!
LARCH: So he's an apple expert, is he?
LARCH: ( sarcastically ) Oh my, yes! This is a far superior tasteand crisp, too! You know, so many apples are disappointingly mealy. I wonder of most of the apples in my life weren't meant for pies!
ANGELA: Wilbur, he picked them for us You don't find it depressing that Homer Wells is picking apples?
LARCH: ( incredulous ) You don't find it depressing that Homer Wells is picking apples?
LARCH: Or that he can't be bothered to write us a proper letter? A dissertation on apples, we don't need!
EDNA: ( annoyed ) He probably doesn't make much money picking appleshe must have had to pay to send them, too.
LARCH: I wouldn't worry, Edna, that he doesn't have money. If he gets hungry, he can pick his dinner!
EDNA: Wilbur, it's a gift! How can you be angry with Homer for sending us a I'll show him a gift! I'll give him a gift he can use!
LARCH: I'll show him a gift! I'll give him a gift he can use!
CANDY: ( disappointed ) But you looked as if you liked it.
HOMER: ( smiling ) I did like it. All I said was, "It's not 'King Kong'."
HOMER: First she loved him, then she didn't, then no one else could have him.
CANDY: She did love him! How many women have you known?
HOMER: And what did she die of, exactly?
CANDY: She was torn apart! She died of a broken heart.
HOMER: Oh, sure!
HOMER: What's the medical explanation?
CANDY: Well, she was in a weakened I don't know! What about "King Kong"?! Is that medically possible?
HOMER: ( mock serious ) At least King Kong knew what he
ROSE ROSE: What is you doin' with that Candy, He's makin' history, I suppose.
MUDDY: ( imitating Mr. Rose ) He's makin' history, I suppose.
ROSE ROSE: You ain't gettin' in no trouble, I No trouble.
HOMER: No trouble.
PEACHES: That Candyshe's the nicest girl I She's about the most beautiful girl I ever seenI don't know if she's the nicest.
MUDDY: She's about the most beautiful girl I ever seenI don't know if she's the nicest.
HOMER: She's the nicest and the most beautiful girl I've ever known. That sounds like you is in trouble already, Homer.
ROSE ROSE: That sounds like you is in trouble already, Homer.
MR. ROSE: That's rightthat sounds like trouble to me.
HOMER: I'm not in trouble.
ROSE ROSE: Yeah, you is. I know when people is in trouble, and you is.
LARCH: .and his pathetic resume is the best I've seen. Though I find it hard to believe the Board would be interested in this character.
DR. HOLTZ: But he looks like an excellent young man, a first-rate candidate!
LARCH: He looks like a bleeding-heart missionary moron to me, but that's going to be the problem with any doctor interested in coming here!
MRS. GOODHALL: Do you know him?
LARCH: No! I don't want to know him! He's doing missionary workin India! I wrote him weeks ago, but he's either too holy or too busy to answer. Maybe he got killed in the war!
MRS. GOODHALL: I fail to see how someone courageous enough to make a commitment to a foreign mission is automatically to be dismissedthat part of the world requires precisely the kind of dedication that is needed here.
LARCH: Does it snow in Bombay? One winter here and we'll be shipping him south, in a coffin!
MRS. GOODHALL: You can't think that a man who has served under such conditions as exist over there will be in the slightest daunted by a little snow have you no idea how harsh and primitive and full of disease that part of the world is?
LARCH: Then I suppose we can look forward to catching various diseases from But, Dr. Larch, he seems exceptionally I'm not talking about his medical qualifications. It's the Christian thing that bothers meI just don't see it being of much use around I fail to see how a little Christianity could hurt anyone Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available I didn't think you'd be interested.
DR. HOLTZ: But, Dr. Larch, he seems exceptionally I'm not talking about his medical qualifications. It's the Christian thing that bothers meI just don't see it being of much use around I fail to see how a little Christianity could hurt anyone Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available I didn't think you'd be interested.
LARCH: I'm not talking about his medical qualifications. It's the Christian thing that bothers meI just don't see it being of much use around I fail to see how a little Christianity could hurt anyone Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available I didn't think you'd be interested.
MRS. GOODHALL: ( bitterly ) I fail to see how a little Christianity could hurt anyone Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available I didn't think you'd be interested.
LARCH: Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available I didn't think you'd be interested.
DR. HOLTZ: We're very interested!
MRS. GOODHALL: Yes, very!
DR. HOLTZ: You wouldn't be opposed to meeting with him?
LARCH: I suppose it wouldn't hurt to meet him. What's his name again?
ANGELA: Dr. Homer Wells.
LARCH: ( mumbling ) I just hope he won't expect us to say Grace all the time.
MRS. GOODHALL: It's a nice name, very New England.
DR. HOLTZ: Very Maine, a very local-sounding
EDNA: INT. DISPENSARY - NIGHT A song plays on the old phonograph as a happy Larch and Angela dance. Edna interrupts them.
EDNA: I just wanted to ask you.
LARCH: Edna! Come dance with me! Let's be foolish tonight.
EDNA: Does he know he's supposed to be in India? Does he even want to come back?
LARCH: ( angrily ) He's a field hand! What could possibly hold him there?
MR. ROSE: Cider don't have no taste till later in Octoberit's too watery now, when we're usin' just them early Macs and them Gravensteins. You don't get no good cider till you're pickin' them Golden Delicious and them Winter Bananas, them Baldwins and them Russerts.
HOMER: What about the worms? Most of these apples are the dropsoff the ground, right? There have to be worms.
MR. ROSE: Of course there's worms, Homer! And what is them worms, really? They just protein, them worms! They is good for you!
MR. ROSE: That just ain't right, Jackyour cigarette's gonna end up in nine or ten gallons of this batch of cider! That ain't right.
JACK: Them people drinkin' that cider, they don't know there's a cigarette in there!
MR. ROSE: It's not that hard to find it in there, Jackit'll take you just a minute. You just gotta go fishin'.
JACK: You mean swimmin'. I ain't goin' in that vat to fish out no cigarette!
MR. ROSE: What business is you in, Jack? Just tell me what your business is. Just say you're in the apple business, man. That's the only business you wanna be in. Just say
MUDDY: Just say you're in the apple business, man. That's the only business you wanna be in. Just say
PEACHES: ( whispers excitedly to Jack ) You don't wanna go in the knife business with Mistuh Rosejust say you're in the apple business, Jack!
JACK: ( to Mr. Rose ) What business are you in?
MR. ROSE: I'm in the knife business, Jack. You don't wanna go in the knife business with me.
MUDDY: You're lucky he didn't cut your nipples off, man.
PEACHES: The good news, Jack, is you're half- undressed for swimmin'.
MUDDY: Yeah, that cigarette ain't hard to find when you're properly undressed.
HOMER: Give men that. I know how to do it.
ROSE ROSE: Oh, I suppose you is a doctor, Homer?
HOMER: MR. ROSE
MR. ROSE: I don't need no "almost" a doctor,
ROSE ROSE: We should drown that damn Jack in the vat!
MR. ROSE: Now, now, darlin'. Jack just needs to know what business he's in.
ROSE ROSE: Yeah, you really showed him, Daddy you just about cut your own hand off, and all you cut off him was his clothes!
MR. ROSE: You oughta know you don't go to jail for cuttin' a guy's clothes. Ain't that right, Homer?
CANDY: You're a natural. You were born to drive a car like this.
HOMER: You think? Maybe I was. I love this place!
HOMER: The screen is enormous! Imagine King Kong up there! Have you seen a lot of movies here?
CANDY: Yes. and no. When you come here, you don't really care about the movie.
HOMER: You don't care about the movie?
CANDY: What are you so crazy about the movies It was my favorite night at the orphanagemovie night. We'd race into the dining hall. Of course everyone wanted to sit in front, so we'd be packed in so tight you could feel the kid next to you breathing.
HOMER: It was my favorite night at the orphanagemovie night. We'd race into the dining hall. Of course everyone wanted to sit in front, so we'd be packed in so tight you could feel the kid next to you breathing.
CANDY: At least you were never lonely.
HOMER: I didn't say that. Growing up in an orphanage, you're always lonely. You're just never alone.
HOMER: You're not alone in the bathroom, or. or in the shower. you're never alone in wanting the last piece of meatloaaf, or even in your own bed on a cold morning.
CANDY: You don't miss it?
HOMER: I miss things. I miss. people. I miss reading to the boys.
CANDY: But you had so much responsibility.
HOMER: I never asked for any Just a little privacy.
CANDY: Just a little privacy.
CANDY: Privacy is exactly the point of drive- in movies.
HOMER: Did you come here with Wallyto not watch movies? Sometimes. movies mostly bore Wally.
CANDY: Sometimes. movies mostly bore Wally.
HOMER: ( points to the speaker ) So what is thata radio?
CANDY: The speaker. For the movie sound.
CANDY: Scrunch down like this.
HOMER: How could you not care about the You just cuddle. You come to hug. to kiss. You don't come here to watch the movie.
CANDY: You just cuddle. You come to hug. to kiss. You don't come here to watch the movie.
HOMER: ( teasing her ) That's what I'd come here for. I'd watch the movie.
CANDY: Not with the right girl you wouldn't.
LARCH: Fuzzy? Fuzzy?
BUSTER: What are you going to tell the little I'll tell them Fuzzy was adopted.
LARCH: I'll tell them Fuzzy was adopted.
BUSTER: Why would the little ones believe that anyone would adopt him?
LARCH: They'll believe it because they want to believe it.
BUSTER: Shouldn't we tell Homer?
LARCH: If Homer wanted to know what was happening here, he could pick up a telephone and call us.
BUSTER: It was a family with a better breathing machine then the one Dr. Larch built.
OLIVE: Some mail for you, Homer.
OLIVE: And some clothes for you, dear let's go see if they fit.
PEACHES: Ain't you gonna see what it is, Homer?
MR. ROSE: Mind your own business, Peaches.
PEACHES: Sorry, Homer.
HOMER: Aren't you worried that people will cut their feet?
CANDY: Nobody will swim here until next summer. By then, the water will have rubbed the glass smooth against the sandthere won't be any sharp edges.
CANDY: See? That's last year's glass, or from some year before. I put glass here every year. The ocean makes it
CANDY: Give me your hand.
CANDY: ( increasingly upset ) Nobody volunteers for the Burma runhe said so himself. And nobody knows me better than him! So how am I supposed to feel? He's a bomber pilot and I'm just selfish, I know. Well, I'm not a brave little girl and I'm not sorry.
CANDY: I know this was right. I told you. I'm not good at being I told him, too.
CANDY: ( repeating herself ) I know this was right.
HOMER: Their expressions, as the car pulls away, belie their words.
MR. ROSE: Slow down, Homerdon't be in such a big hurry.
HOMER: This is easyI'm not hurrying.
MR. ROSE: You still doin' it too fast!
ROSE ROSE: He's in a big hurry, all right. I told you he's in trouble.
HOMER: Just tell me. Do you want me to go? Do you want me to stay?
CANDY: It will be okay.
HOMER: What will be okay?
CANDY: We have to wait and see. I think that, for everything in life, you have to wait and see.
HOMER: I'll just move on, get another job Every time you throw a snail off the dock, you're makin' someone start his whole life over.
RAY: Every time you throw a snail off the dock, you're makin' someone start his whole life over.
CANDY: Maybe we're doing the snails a favor,
RAY: It's gettin' late. I think I'll pack it in.
CANDY: Good night, Daddy. We'll just have to wait and see.
CANDY: We'll just have to wait and see.
OLIVE: I used to hate it when Wally went back to collegeeven when it was just college! And this was when his father was still alive. I hated it even then. Naturally I hate this
OLIVE: What I mean is. I would like it very much if you thought you could be happy here, Homer.
HOMER: ( wiping his mouth ) Mrs. Worthington, I feel I'm very lucky to be here.
OLIVE: There's not a lot of work in the winter, and you'll have to tolerate Vernoneven Wally despises him, and Wally likes everyone.
HOMER: I think Wally will be fine, Mrs. Worthingtonhe seems indestructible to me.
OLIVE: ( distracted ) I don't know. ( intently at Homer ) Just promise me one thing.
HOMER: Uh. sure.
OLIVE: Just promise me that, if there's a blizzard, you'll move into Wally's room until it's over.
OLIVE: Good-bye. Have a safe trip home. Thank you, again, for all your hard You take care now, Mrs. Worthin'ton.
MR. ROSE: You take care now, Mrs. Worthin'ton.
OLIVE: Good-bye, Arthur. Homer, I'll see you tomorrow?
HOMER: Olive gets in her Jeep and waves as she drives off. The truck is packed. Muddy tugs on a rope that secures the Mr. Rose nods and gets in behind the wheel. Rose Rose and Muddy get in next to him. The others are bundled up for the ride in the open back of the truck. As they're leaving, Homer waves good-byethe pickers calling out to him.
MUDDY: ( to Mr. Rose ) We all set, I think.
MR. ROSE: You all take care of yourself, too, We see you next harvest.
PEACHES: We see you next harvest.
MUDDY: Don't freeze to death, Homer.
JACK: Go on and freeze to death if you want to, Homer.
MR. ROSE: Now, now, Jackthat just ain't right.
ROSE ROSE: You just stay out of trouble, Homer!
CANDY: Olive told me. You might have told me yourself.
HOMER: I'm just waiting and seeing. Like you said.
HOMER: I've looked at so many women. I mean, I've seen everything about them, everything. but I never felt a thing. I felt nothing. Now. with you. it hurts. to look at
LARCH: I think we may have lot him to the world. He's not coming back.
HERO: Who's that?
PEACHES: It's that Homer!
MUDDY: It's that Candy, too.
MR. ROSE: Don't this place look like home?
PEACHES: It look nicer then home!
MR. ROSE: What have you two been doin' to make it look so nice?
ROSE ROSE: How is that Wally doing?
CANDY: Oh, he's fine! I just heard from him. He's bombing all these places.
HOMER: ( mumbling ) .bridges, oil refineries, fuel
HOMER: Where's Jack?
MUDDY: He just wasn't up for the trip.
MR. ROSE: That Jack just never knew what his business was.
MR. ROSE: You pickin' nothin' but cider apples, PeachesI hope you understand that.
PEACHES: They ain't dropsI picked 'em off the tree!
MR. ROSE: Then you pickin' 'em too fastthey ain't no better than drops to me. See that bruise, and that one? Half of these is bruised! Look at this one! It ain't got no stem! You might as well step on 'em, toothey only good for cider.
CANDY: Do you think I'm having a good time? Do you think I'm just teasing you? Do you think I know whether I want you or Wally?
HOMER: So we should "wait and see." For how I grew up with Wally. I began my adult life with him.
CANDY: I grew up with Wally. I began my adult life with him.
HOMER: Fine. That's all there is to it then.
CANDY: No! That's not all there is to it! I love you, tooI know I do.
HOMER: Okay, okayI know you do, too.
CANDY: ( bitterly ) It's a good thing I didn't have that baby, isn't it?
PEACHES: ( calling after her ) Ain't you eatin' with us, Rose? ( to the men ) She used to eat with us. Now we ain't good enough for her, I guess.
HERO: She ain't hungry, maybe.
MUDDY: She ain't hungry every mornin' 'cause she's sick every mornin'.
HOMER: You okay, Rose?
ROSE ROSE: I guess you must like watchin' me be I don't like watching anyone be sick.
HOMER: I don't like watching anyone be sick.
HOMER: How many months are you? You're not yet three months, are Not yet. What do you know about it?
HOMER: You're not yet three months, are Not yet. What do you know about it?
ROSE ROSE: Not yet. What do you know about it?
HOMER: I know more than I want to know about it. Who's the father?
ROSE ROSE: Don't trouble yourself about it, Homerthis ain't your business.
HOMER: But you don't look very happy.
ROSE ROSE: Happy! What are you thinkin'? How am I supposed to take care of a baby! I can't have a baby.
HOMER: Rose, please listen. Whatever you want to do, I can help you.
HOMER: What I mean is, if you don't want to. keep the baby, I know a place where you can go.
ROSE ROSE: You think Daddy's gonna let me go anywhere? I ain't going nowhere.
ROSE ROSE: Why don't you just go back to your pickin', Homer? I can take care of it myself!
HOMER: Rose, listendon't do anything. You know, I mean to yourself. Please Homer! Is this a workin' day or what?
CANDY: We should take her to St. Cloud's. That much is obvious, isn't it? Let her make up her mind when she gets I told her! She doesn't feel she can do that. Something about her father not letting her go anywhere.
HOMER: I told her! She doesn't feel she can do that. Something about her father not letting her go anywhere.
CANDY: Well, we have to help her!
CANDY: We have to do something. Don't we?
CANDY: ROSE ROSE
ROSE ROSE: She keeps setting the table.
CANDY: I've got some more clothes for you I just keep forgetting to bring them with me.
ROSE ROSE: I don't need no more clothes, thank Rose, I know what's going on. Homer told me. I got pregnant, tooabout a year ago. I've been through this.
CANDY: ( softly ) Rose, I know what's going on. Homer told me. I got pregnant, tooabout a year ago. ( pause ) I've been through this.
ROSE ROSE: You ain't been through what I been through, Candy.
CANDY: ( doesn't get it ) Yes, I have!
CANDY: Who's the father, Rose?
CANDY: You want to have the baby?
CANDY: I know where you can go. Homer and I can take you.
ROSE ROSE: I can't go nowhere.
CANDY: Rose Rose stays silent.
CANDY: Is it the father? Does he know?
CANDY: You can trust me. Is it Jack? It's not Jack, is it? It's Muddy! Is it No. It ain't Muddy. Muddy's just.
ROSE ROSE: ( almost wistfully ) No. It ain't Muddy. Muddy's just.
ROSE ROSE: It sure ain't Jack.
MR. ROSE: ( to his daughter ) I'll be up top.
CANDY: She won't go to St. Cloud's!
HOMER: ( shrugging ) Well, we can't force her. It's her You don't understand! It's her Mr. Rose knows?
CANDY: You don't understand! It's her Mr. Rose knows?
HOMER: Mr. Rose knows?
CANDY: ( shouting ) He's the father! He's her baby's
HOMER: Wait. wait! Are you sure?
CANDY: We've got to keep her away from that
MR. ROSE: I didn't see where you was pickin' this mornin', Homer, but you musta worked up a big appetite. You look like you're serious about gettin' to your lunch today!
HOMER: Is it true?
HOMER: Are you sleeping with your own
MR. ROSE: ( slyly; still composed ) I think you been stayin' up too late at night, Homer.
HOMER: You're actually having sex with your own little girl? Is that possible?
MR. ROSE: Ain't nobody havin' sex with my little girl, Homerthat's somethin' a father knows.
HOMER: You're lying. How can you. with your own daughter!
MR. ROSE: Homer, don't you know what business you in? You don't wanna go into no business with me, Homerain't that Go on, cut my clothes. I've got other
HOMER: Go on, cut my clothes. I've got other
MR. ROSE: You a fine one to be talkin' about lies. Shame! These people took you in. That boy Wally's at war!
HOMER: But she's your daughter.
MR. ROSE: And I love her! There ain't nobody else gonna treat her as good as I I wouldn't do nothin' to hurt her, Homeryou must know that.
HOMER: She's pregnant. Do you know that?
MUDDY: Don't mess in this, Homer, if you know what's good for you.
HOMER: How long's this been going on, Muddy?
MUDDY: Long enough. You ain't gonna stop There's my knife, Homer. It ain't gonna do me no good. You give that knife to Rose Rose, you hear?
MUDDY: There's my knife, Homer. It ain't gonna do me no good. You give that knife to Rose Rose, you hear?
MUDDY: You best just watch you ass, Homer! You don't wanna end up like Jack!
CANDY: No! No!
MAJOR WINSLOW: When the plane was hit, the crew chief and the radioman jumped close together. The copilot jumped third. All on Captain Worthington's orders the captain was still flying the plane. None of the men of the ground could see the skythat's how thick the jungle was. They never saw the plane crashthey never heard it crash. They never saw Captain Worthington's parachute, either.
OLIVE: Why was he missing for twenty days?
MAJOR WINSLOW: Because the crew thought he'd gone down with the plane. They were hospitalized for almost a week in China before they were flown back to India. It wasn't until that they sorted through their gear.
CANDY: Who cares about their gear?
MAJOR WINSLOW: Three men jumped from the plane, but they had four compasses with them. One of the crew jumped with Captain Worthington's compass.
CANDY: He was in Burma for twenty days without a compass?
MAJOR WINSLOW: He followed the Irrawaddy River, all the way to Rangoon. Somehow he managed to avoid the Japs, but not the Then it's malaria?
OLIVE: Then it's malaria?
MAJOR WINSLOW: It's encephalitis B. He's recovering at Mount Lavinia Hospital, Ceylon. Uh. Captain Worthington is Waist down. He won't walk.
MAJOR WINSLOW: ( to Olive ) I'm sorry.
HOMER: ( asks the major ) There are no autonomic effects, are
MAJOR WINSLOW: No autonomic effects. that's When will he be home, Major?
OLIVE: When will he be home, Major?
MAJOR WINSLOW: Four weeks or so, right around
HOMER: ( finally ) There are no autonomic effects, just the paralysis of the lower
HOMER: Wally can have kids, a normal sex
RAY: How about him not needin' the friggin' compass! How about that?
CANDY: Daddy, please.
RAY: Good night, kids. Don't catch cold it's gettin' cold already.
CANDY: Good night, Daddy.
HOMER: Good night, Ray.
HOMER: Just tell me. I'll do whatever you want to do.
CANDY: Isn't that like waiting and seeing?
HOMER: Isn't that like waiting and seeing?
CANDY: No. Nothing is nothing. I want Wally to come home. I'm afraid to see him, I know. Is that nothing.
HOMER: I know. Is that nothing.
CANDY: No, don'tthat's something. Nothing is nothing. Don't even look at me. I want.
CANDY: .to do nothing.
HOMER: ( mumbling to himself ) It's a tempting idea, I know. to do nothing.
CANDY: ( groans ) Please don't move, don't go anywhere.
HOMER: ( overly genuine ) Go anywhere? Of course not! That would be doing something, wouldn't it? We wouldn't want to do something. Let's just sit here all ( irritated ) If you're trying to be funny, Homer.
CANDY: ( irritated ) If you're trying to be funny, Homer.
HOMER: ( irritated, too ) I'm not trying to be anythingI'm just doing nothing! If I wait and see long enough, thenwith any luck I won't ever have to make up my mind! Decisions can be painful, after
CANDY: Stop it! Just cut it out!
HOMER: ( mock surprise ) You got up! You did something! If you keep this up, you might be in danger of making a decision!
CANDY: For God's sake, Homer, Wally's been shot down!
HOMER: ( genuinely contrite ) I know, I'm sorry.
CANDY: ( yelling and sobbing ) He's paralyzed!
HOMER: ( deadpan; just the facts ) He's alive. He still loves you. ( pause ) So do I.
CANDY: ( anguished ) What do you want me to do?
HOMER: ( with calm resolve ) Nothing. You're not the one who has to do anything.
MR. ROSE: You ain't goin' nowhere in the middle of the night, girl!
ROSE ROSE: I ain't your business no more, Daddy. Please let me go.
HOMER: Hey, hey! Stop it. Maybe I can help.
MR. ROSE: You just go inside, Homer. We don't need no help.
ROSE ROSE: That's right, Homer. This ain't your
HOMER: Please listen to me! Both of you.
MR. ROSE: You forget yourself, Homer. This here's my daughter! You got your own mess to deal withain't that right?
MR. ROSE: ( yelling ) What business is you in, Homer?
HOMER: Mr. Rose, I'm in the doctor If you want, I can help you. You don't have to go anywhere.
MR. ROSE: ( to Homer ) What's that? What's it called?
HOMER: One cervical stabilizer, two sets of dilatorsDouglas points. One medium- sized curette, one small; one medium speculum, one large; two vulsellum There ain't no almost about this stuff, Homerain't that right?
MR. ROSE: There ain't no almost about this stuff, Homerain't that right?
HOMER: Merthiolate, ether, vulval pads, gauzelots of gauze.
MR. ROSE: When it comes to this, you is the real thingis that what you sayin'?
HOMER: No almost about itI'm a doctor.
HOMER: Get out of here, please.
MR. ROSE: I'm stayin', Homer.
HOMER: Okay. Then you can be of use.
HOMER: You better get some air.
CANDY: The bleeding should taper off tomorrow, but it can come back again. The cramps will ease up, almost entirely. The bleeding is usually much lighter in two days. As long as the bleeding isn't heavy, it's normal. It's that Vernonhe keeps askin' where you and Homer and Rose Rose is Tell that Vernon to mind his own business, Muddy.
MUDDY: It's that Vernonhe keeps askin' where you and Homer and Rose Rose is Tell that Vernon to mind his own business, Muddy.
MR. ROSE: Tell that Vernon to mind his own business, Muddy.
MUDDY: I told him that you all is sick.
MR. ROSE: Tell him what you want, Muddyyou is the crew boss today.
PEACHES: Look at that. Them same damn rules is tacked up again!
MUDDY: Why don't you put them damn rules in the wood stove, Peaches?
ROSE ROSE: I want to hear what they are, first.
ROSE ROSE: Homer, let me hear what they are.
HOMER: "One: Please don't smoke in bed."
MUDDY: We heard that one already, Homer.
HOMER: "Two: Please don't go up to the roof to eat your lunch."
PEACHES: That's the best place to eat lunch!
HOMER: "Three: Pleaseeven if you are very hotdo not go up to the roof to What do they think? They must think we're crazy!
HERO: What do they think? They must think we're crazy!
MUDDY: They think we're dumb niggers so we need dumb rulesthat's what they This is the last one.
HOMER: This is the last one.
HOMER: "Four: There should be no going up on the roof at night."
PEACHES: Why don't they just say, "Stay off the roof!"?
HERO: Yeah, they don't want us up there at all!
ROSE ROSE: ( to Homer ) That's it?
HOMER: That's it.
ROSE ROSE: It means nothin' at all! And all this time I been wonderin' about They're outrageous, them rules!
PEACHES: They're outrageous, them rules!
MR. ROSE: Who live here in this cider house, Peaches? Who grind them apples, who press that cider, who clean up the mess, and who just plain live here. just breathin' in the vinegar? Somebody who don't live here made them rules. Them rules ain't for us. We the ones who make up them rules. We makin' our own rules, every day. Ain't that right, Homer?
HOMER: Camera closes on Candy.
CANDY: Please don't make me say it again.
HOMER: No, that's not itI just want to be sure I understand you.
HOMER: I helped you not to think about Wally. You were so upsetyou couldn't stand worrying about him, about his being killed and not coming back but when you were with me, you could stop worrying. well, for a while, anyway. This is how I helped you, Please. that's enough. I loved you, tooyou know I did.
CANDY: Please. that's enough. I loved you, tooyou know I did.
HOMER: ".did." Well, okay.
CANDY: Please don't.
HOMER: ( sarcastically ) And now that Wally's coming back, and because he'll certainly need You say that as though it's some awful thing! ( angrily ) I never stopped loving Wally!
CANDY: You say that as though it's some awful thing! I never stopped loving Wally!
HOMER: ( still sarcastic ) At least there's no more waiting and seeing. At least I got to see the
MUDDY: Rose Rose has runned away!
PEACHES: She took off in the night!
MUDDY: She took off on the bicycle, man.
MR. ROSE: Ain't nobody gonna find her, Homer she's long gone. I swear, I didn't try and stop her I just wanna touch her hand before she go. That's all I wanna do, I Where'd she get that knife, Muddy? That looked like your knifewhat I seen of it.
MR. ROSE: If that was your knife, Muddy, I wanna thank you for givin' it to her no girl should be goin' hitch-hikin' if she don't got a good knife with Where'd she get you?
HOMER: ( seeing the blood ) Where'd she get you?
MR. ROSE: She just plan misunderstand meI was tryin' to give her my knife, I was just reachin' to touch her hand. But I understand if she misunderstand meit's all my fault, ain't that
MR. ROSE: It's too late for the doctor now, Homerain't that right?
MR. ROSE: ( proudly ) She's good with that knife! She's real fast. She's a lot better with that knife than you is, Muddy! And who do you suppose taught her?
MUDDY: You taught her, I suppose.
MR. ROSE: That's right! A girl's gotta know how to defend herself, don't she?
HOMER: ( surprised ) There's more than one laceration, more than one cut.
MR. ROSE: That's 'cause I sticked my own knife in the woundafter she go, I sticked my own knife in there. I poked it all around, I just tryin' to find the same place she got me.
MR. ROSE: You listen to me: you tell them police how this happen, you tell it this way, you hear? My daughter, she runned offand I so sad about it that I stabbed myself. I so unhappy that she gone, I killed myselfthat what you say, you hear? That the true storyain't that right?
MR. ROSE: Let me hear you say that! I so unhappy she runned away that I killed myself that what happen here, ain't that That what happenyou lost you only daughter so's you killed yourself! That's what we say, all right.
HOMER: That what happenyou lost you only daughter so's you killed yourself! That's what we say, all right.
MUDDY: That what happenyou lost you only daughter so's you killed yourself! That's what we say, all right.
MR. ROSE: That's right. I know you understand how I feel, Homeryou is breakin' them rules, too. Ain't that right?
CANDY: Do you think she'll be all right?
HOMER: She knows how to take care of herself.
CANDY: This came for you a couple of days ago. Olive asked me to bring it. With everything happening, I guess she forgot.
HOMER: Sure. Thanks.
CANDY: I know you don't think much of being needed, or of me for that matter.
HOMER: I'm sorry for what I said about Wally needing you. It was. unnecessary.
CANDY: No, I'm the one who should be sorry. You have every right to be angry.
HOMER: No. You warned me. I didn't listen, but you warned me.
HOMER: You told me you weren't any good at being alone. You told Wally, too. Right?
HOMER: ( relenting ) He's going to be fine, Wally's going to be fine. I know he is.
BUSTER: Dr. Larch? Dr. Larch?
MUDDY: You ever see a palm tree, Homer?
PEACHES: He ain't never been outta Maine!
HERO: Ain't you sick of pine trees, Homer?
HOMER: Thanks, guys. I'd like to go with you. But I've got to move on.
MUDDY: Yeah, well. you could move on with us, man! You could move on somewhere Homer, stayin' in Maine ain't movin'
PEACHES: Homer, stayin' in Maine ain't movin'
EDNA: "Then, in Thy mercy grant us a safe lodging, and a holy rest, and peace at the last."
HOMER: You know what? I did.
HOMER: It's from the ocean. It's for you.
BUSTER: What are you doing here?
MARY AGNES: We made up a room for you.
ANGELA: Wouldn't you be more comfortable by Homer, do you know what this is?
EDNA: Homer, do you know what this is?
HOMER: Sure. It's my heart.
ANGELA: ( shakes her head ) Actually, it's Fuzzy's. There's nothing wrong with your heart.
HOMER: Dr. Larch wanted to keep you out of the war, Homerthat's why he did it. That's why he told you it was
EDNA: Dr. Larch wanted to keep you out of the war, Homerthat's why he did it. That's why he told you it was
ANGELA: I think he worried about his own heart. He said it would never stand up to Homer Wells going off to war.
HOMER: "Thus I began my new life, in a new name, and with everything new about me. I felt. like one in a dream. The remembrance of that life is fraught with so much. want of hope. Whether it lasted for a year, or more, or less, I do not know. I only know that it was, and ceased to be; and. there I leave it."
CURLY: What happens next?
HOMER: That's tomorrow, Curly. Let's mot give the story away.
HOMER: Good night, you Princes of Maine! You Kings of New England!
THE END: Writers : John Irving
