DEALER: Somebody shut the goddam window. Let a man think.
DEALER: Possible straight gets a lovely little four.
FIRST PLAYER: On the last hand even, you couldn't give me a break.
DEALER: I put the brakes on your straight, didn't I? There you are, son, a gorgeous deuce.
KID: ( deals to Danny ) And our lucky friend from Chicago gets a queen with his pair of sixes. Little lady make you happy, Buster?
DEALER: ( deals to Danny ) And our lucky friend from Chicago gets a queen with his pair of sixes. Little lady make you happy, Buster?
DANNY: Deal to yourself, clown.
DEALER: Dealer gives himself a I might have known. Bet your sixes, Buster.
DANNY: I told you not to call me that. Cost you Ninety-four bucks.
DEALER: Biggest pot of the whole game, I got to drop.
DANNY: ( to First Player ) Wouldn't call you if I had a pair higher'n sixes. Which I ain't.
FIRST PLAYER: Wouldn't call you if I had a pair higher'n sixes. Which I ain't.
KID: Don't seem like he'd bet out without something better than the sixes, does it? Cost me every cent I've won since yesterday afternoon. But I tell you, I got this stubborn streak. Call the ninety-four dollars.
DANNY: ( indignantly ) You can't have better than a pair of Oh, I'm not claiming anything that ( turns over an eight, making a pair of them ) Just enough to beat the pair of sixes.
KID: Oh, I'm not claiming anything that Just enough to beat the pair of sixes.
DANNY: You seen my hole card, you bastard! He was dealing them high.
DANNY: You stole that dough.
KID: You better watch those loose lips of yours, you want to have any teeth left behind them Buster.
DANNY: You wouldn't of shelled out ninety- four bucks
KID: I called you on account of I didn't think you had another pair or another six and I know a punk like you would get greedy and try and buy the last
KID: Drop it.
HACKIE: What you looking for, mister?
LANCEY: Do I have to be looking for something?
HACKIE: I can pretty much tell.
LANCEY: You can pretty much tell what?
HACKIE: Some guys come to town, I can tell if they're looking for something.
LANCEY: What do you think I'm looking for?
HACKIE: If you're looking for girls, I can fix you up.
LANCEY: I strongly doubt if you could fix me up. In that department.
HACKIE: Well what are you looking for?
LANCEY: You're looking for a clout in the head if you don't keep your face to the road.
SECOND HACKIE: Hey, you know who that is?
HACKIE: No. Who?
SECOND HACKIE: ( into phone ) Shorty? Want to hear who just checked into the Park Sherman. Yes, you do. Lancey Hodges.
ATTENDANT: The Kid know?
BARTENDER: Somebody sure as hell ought to tell The Kid. Lancey Hodges is in town.
BARBER: You ask me, The Kid'll go after him as soon as he hears.
CUSTOMER: Who's got a better right?
HOBAN: You going to tell The Kid, Shooter?
SHOOTER: Hell, I can't not tell him.
HOBAN: It's where he's been headed for years.
KID: ( in greeting ) What you say, Kid?
HOBAN: What you say, Kid?
KID: Hey, Hoban.
SHOOTER: Where you been? Boys been holding a chair for you in back.
KID: Business opportunity come along. Something too good to pass up.
SHOOTER: Turn a profit?
KID: Yeah, did okay. Except I almost had it took back.
HOBAN: Oh, one of those.
SHOOTER: ( concerned ) You been in too many rough ones lately, Kid. You can't go on forever, coming out in one piece.
KID: I got to build my stake, Aren't enough chances in this town to let one go.
HOBAN: You're too good, that's your trouble. People who know you're the Cincinnati Kid, they don't want to sit down with you
KID: For nickels and dimes. Thing is I've about used up St. Louis.
SHOOTER: ( nodding ) The streets are getting full of guys you've hustled.
KID: Been thinking about Miami. There's nothing to keep me here.
SHOOTER: ( after a moment ) The hell there isn't ( as the Kid looks at him ) Lancey Hodges' in town.
KID: ( then ) The Man himself, here in St. Louis I might just stick around Shooter.
LANCEY: ( into phone ) Mr. Schlaegel? How are you? And your enchanting wife?. Tomorrow is quite convenient. I generally prefer stud but you name it. Your stakes are my pleasure, sir. Thank you, why don't we make it after lunch? My diet these days is enough to spoil anyone else's appetite. A pleasure, sir. Please remember me to your charming wife.
SHOOTER: ( lighting a cigar ) I been seeing it coming for a long time, Kid. Long time.
KID: I ain't exactly been hiding it.
SHOOTER: No, you ain't been hiding it.
KID: Well I got to know.
SHOOTER: Sure, you got to know. We all got to Sometime or other we got to find out how much juice we got.
KID: Sometime or other we got to find out how much juice we got.
SHOOTER: That's why I had to tell you.
KID: You ever sit down with him?
SHOOTER: Yes, I have.
KID: Well, what happened?
SHOOTER: Nothing. Nothing at all.
KID: You lost.
SHOOTER: I didn't lose. I'm too good to lose when I set my mind to it. I play poker a certain way, Kid. I've had my Lancey Hodges. Only with me it was Whistling Sam Magee to New I heard about him.
KID: ( respectfully ) I heard about him.
SHOOTER: Well then you know it all. about 20 years ago it was, maybe more.
KID: What happened?
SHOOTER: Why, I lost it. It dried me up on the inside for a long, a very long I been where I'm going, know what I
KID: I been where I'm going, know what I
SHOOTER: I been where I'm going, know what I
KID: You think I'm ready?
SHOOTER: ( after some time, several seconds of thoughtful puffing ) Kid, I don't think you're ready.
KID: ( quickly ) But you're not going to take my word for it, are you? Are you now?
SHOOTER: But you're not going to take my word for it, are you? Are you now?
KID: No, I ain't. I can't.
SHOOTER: I know, I know. You got to find out for yourself.
KID: I don't figure to take him right away. But if I can hang in there long enough, I can outlast him. If I can outlast him, I got a chance. You admit that, don't you, that I got a I already said I didn't think you were ready.
SHOOTER: I already said I didn't think you were ready.
KID: Did you think you were ready when you sat down with Whistling Sam Magee?
SHOOTER: Kid, I thought I was the best stud poker player in the world. I'm telling you now, I thought I was the best.
KID: Well, I don't think I'm just a cocky square with a fair hand with cards. I got something.
SHOOTER: No, you ain't no cocky square. And you probably got something.
KID: Okay. And I ain't saying that you was either when you sat down with Whistling Sam Magee.
SHOOTER: If you got the stuff, being a little cocky don't hurt you none.
KID: Well, would you say if I got any chance at all?
SHOOTER: This much of a chance. If Lancey is not right. If he's got a cold, or his stomach ulcer is acting up, or something like that.
KID: But then everybody'd see he wasn't right and it wouldn't prove nothing. Listen, we got to have it understood. If he's not right, we call it off till he is.
SHOOTER: You're set on a real showdown, aren't you? Your mind's all made up.
KID: I got to. You said yourself I got to. I'm overdue.
SHOOTER: Yeah, you been around a long time I was a lot younger than you when I went up against Whistling Sam But you'd be kinda young too, to be The I gotta find out.
KID: I gotta find out.
SHOOTER: ( after a pause ) Want me to set it up?
KID: ( gratefully ) I wish you would, Shooter Man.
SHOOTER: All right.
KID: Hey, what if he turns me down?
SHOOTER: He won't, the way I'll spread the word. He'll have to take you on, someone in your class. If he ducked it, that'd make you The Man.
KID: You think he knows I'm around?
SHOOTER: He can smell meat like you a mile and a half up the river. He knows you're around and he'll sit down with you. You want to butt heads with The Man, I'll set it up.
SHOOTER: There's your woman.
KID: I wouldn't want to wait around too long. I want to get in and get it over with.
SHOOTER: He must of come to St. Louis for a big money game. I'll probably get asked do I want to deal it for them. And however long that takes, he'll have to rest up for you.
KID: Oh, well, if he's tooling a dollar, I can understand that. Sure.
SHOOTER: You got much of a stake?
KID: Close to three grand.
SHOOTER: Work on it. But three grand will give you a ride and even if you don't win, why you'll come away with a good idea of what you're made of. But once you go in Kid you can't quit. You get that straight right now. Two of you go in and only one of you can come out.
KID: Well, school's out. I damn sure don't want no lessons. I want everything he's got.
SHOOTER: It's the only way to be, Kid.
SHOOTER: See you.
CHRISTIAN: When we leaving town, Kid? This week?
KID: No, I won't be ready. Not for a while.
CHRISTIAN: I thought
KID: Might even turn out we don't go. You must feel different about it than you did Saturday.
CHRISTIAN: You must feel different about it than you did Saturday.
KID: Yeah, I'm feeling a little different.
KID: It's all right. You don't have to act like a cat. You're not bothering You want me to turn out the light?
CHRISTIAN: You want me to turn out the light?
KID: No. I'm overtired, that's why I can't Why can't you sleep?
CHRISTIAN: ( lightly ) Undertired, I guess. If a person rests all day, she doesn't have much to rest up from at night. ( stands up ) Why don't you have a nice hot bath? I could give you a rubdown and then you could have a nice hot bath, and then maybe you could sleep. 'Kay. Can't hurt to try it.
KID: 'Kay. Can't hurt to try it.
KID: What did you do with yourself this Last night I went to a movie with The Shooter's woman. French movie.
CHRISTIAN: Last night I went to a movie with The Shooter's woman. French movie.
KID: In French?
CHRISTIAN: They had the words in English at the bottom of the picture. But The Shooter's woman knew what they were saying without it. Pig's woman or somebody told me she went to college.
KID: Sure. Majored in man-eating.
CHRISTIAN: I think maybe she really did go. But I never quite dared to up and ask I didn't know you ran with The Shooter's woman.
KID: I didn't know you ran with The Shooter's woman.
CHRISTIAN: We got to be kind of friendly when you both were in that three-day game down to Cairo. 'Course she's older'n And been around more. A lot more. What was the movie like?
KID: And been around more. A lot more. What was the movie like?
CHRISTIAN: Weird. It wasn't a straight story where you knew whose side you were on, the way you do in regular American pictures.
KID: American pictures.
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. There were lots of things I didn't understand.
KID: What was it about?
CHRISTIAN: Well, there's this town in Europe a long time ago where they get a message from a Spanish general he's coming to spend the night with his troops. So all the men are scared silly about what the soldiers will do to them.
KID: Nothing weird about that.
CHRISTIAN: But all the wives and daughters tell the men to go hide somewhere and let them bargain with the enemy.
KID: That don't make much sense.
CHRISTIAN: Wait. The way they handle it is they go to bed with the Spaniards. And the next morning the soldiers go off peacefully and everybody's happy.
KID: Including the husbands and fathers? Don't they suspect?
CHRISTIAN: That's part of what I wasn't sure of. I guess they know what went on but they care more about their safety and their money than they do about their honor.
KID: Then they got their heads screwed on straight. Honor's just an idea. You can't see or feel it and you can't eat it and you sure as hell can't get any mileage on it.
CHRISTIAN: I'll just turn off the bath water.
MELBA: ( into phone ) Hello. Yes, it is. You want him? ( calling ) Shooter! Telephone! Shooter!
MELBA: Phone for you. I always seem to be the one to answer it, no matter who it's for.
SHOOTER: ( getting up ) If you'd rather we put it in my room
MELBA: Are you kidding?
SHOOTER: ( into phone ) Hello?. Well, hello. What brings you to our fair city? Little action,
LANCEY: ( into phone ) How could you guess, Shooter? I was invited by a Mr. William Schlaegel
SHOOTER: ( into phone ) Owns most of the Schlaegel Brewery. Braumeister beer.
LANCEY: ( into phone ) As he put it, rather bluntly, I felt, we don't want everyone to have to watch everyone else dealing to see to it they don't make any little accidental errors by mistake. I told him a man couldn't ask for a better guarantee of a fair-and-square game than having The Shooter deal it. So if you're willing, we're meeting at two o'clock in the afternoon. Ask for Mr. Schlaegel's suite at the Park Sherman. Good. I'm glad you can do it, Shooter. Be a pleasure to see you again. ( then ) Oh pretty much the same. Just have to be a little careful about smoking and drinking and eating and breathing. See you tomorrow. Good
MELBA: Wouldn't be much point wearing it in private. Sure, why not, as long as you don't have a bulge to hide?
CHRISTIAN: I don't know, Melba.
MELBA: ( looking her over ) My guess is there isn't anything about you needs hiding. But I'll give you a more definitive opinion at the bath.
CHRISTIAN: ( startled ) At the what?
MELBA: Turkish Bath. After we're through shopping. I'm treating you, Christian.
CHRISTIAN: I never been. I'm not even sure what you do.
MELBA: You don't do anything. That's what's so marvelous. They do it to you.
CHRISTIAN: The third time I stayed. Never went back to the boarding house except to pick up my things.
MELBA: And that side of it's held up? No complaints in the bed department?
CHRISTIAN: Well, just one.
MELBA: ( intrigued ) The nights he isn't there.
CHRISTIAN: The nights he isn't there.
MELBA: He really does that to you, does he? You got one of the rare ones.
CHRISTIAN: You find a guy, you love him, and that's it. It's supposed to just go on like that for life. Right?
MELBA: According to the propaganda, right.
CHRISTIAN: But it isn't my life, it's his life, with me tacked on. You have any idea what it's like to be a hash slinger in a cheap restaurant?
MELBA: No, honey, the stock crash wafted me right from the daisy chain into unmarried bliss.
CHRISTIAN: It's hell, if you'll excuse the word. But I didn't want to quit. The Kid made me. I felt I ought to hang on to something that was me away from him. You know what I mean?
MELBA: Sure. Some girls solve the problem by taking on an extra guy.
CHRISTIAN: I'm serious. Having children might take care of it, I don't know. Or this is really a terrible thing to Your most sordid secrets are safe with me. Confess.
MELBA: Your most sordid secrets are safe with me. Confess.
CHRISTIAN: If he was rich, or famous
MELBA: Why don't you give him both?
CHRISTIAN: ( smiling ) Why not? Well, if he was rich and famous, maybe I wouldn't mind so much just being just a woman to him. Do you think that might make it seem more worthwhile somehow?
MELBA: Somehow! Are you sincere, sweetie? Oooo divine. Isn't this heaven?
CHRISTIAN: I'm not sure. In a way it seems soft
MELBA: Decadent? Depraved?
MELBA: Well, yes.
CHRISTIAN: Well, yes.
MELBA: That's what I meant by heaven.
SHOOTER: ( as he deals ) Still queens possible flush no help possible flush.
LANCEY: SECOND WEALTHY TYPE
LANCEY: And up two.
BILL: Call the two thou.
LANCEY: ( turning over queen of his suit ) Queen high.
BILL: ( indignantly ) Jack high. Can you beat that?
BILL: How the bloody hell did you figure out I didn't have the king or the I recollect a young fellow putting the same question to Eddie the Dude. It was a game in the grand lounge of the "J.M. White, Third," the largest paddle-wheeler ever built. "Son," Eddie told him, "All you paid was the looking price. Lessons are extra." First time I heard of this Cincinnati Kid was in New Orleans, at Yeller's. I knew right away I'd have to play him someday.
LANCEY: I recollect a young fellow putting the same question to Eddie the Dude. It was a game in the grand lounge of the "J.M. White, Third," the largest paddle-wheeler ever built. "Son," Eddie told him, "All you paid was the looking price. Lessons are extra." First time I heard of this Cincinnati Kid was in New Orleans, at Yeller's. I knew right away I'd have to play him someday.
SHOOTER: You'll enjoy his game.
LANCEY: I may admire it. But if he's all that good, I doubt if I'll enjoy it.
SHOOTER: The tougher the competition, the better you used to like it.
LANCEY: I've learned to take everything in
KID: ( to Melba ) Have a drink with us?
MELBA: Better not. Shooter said they'd break at seven, and he has to have his food first, then his nap. You know, there's a day in your life I'm looking forward to.
KID: In my life?
MELBA: The day The Kid becomes The Man.
CHRISTIAN: How'd you sleep Kid?
KID: I slept okay.
CHRISTIAN: I hope you don't mind my not being there when you woke up.
KID: No I don't mind What she was talking about, Shooter's woman I'm going up against a big game soon.
CHRISTIAN: She told me. It's a very big game, I Will it be long?
KID: Will it be long?
CHRISTIAN: Will it be long?
KID: ( then ) What's the matter?
CHRISTIAN: I thought
KID: Thought what?
CHRISTIAN: I'd go home and see Mama.
KID: I wouldn't be able to spare you much Oh, I wouldn't want much. Bus is really the best way to go.
CHRISTIAN: Oh, I wouldn't want much. Bus is really the best way to go.
KID: Would a hundred fish do it? For the bus and something nice to bring your That would be fine, Kid. Just fine.
CHRISTIAN: That would be fine, Kid. Just fine.
KID: When would you want to go?
CHRISTIAN: There's no reason for not going right now unless
KID: Unless what?
CHRISTIAN: Unless you wanted to go to bed first.
KID: Do you want to? Would you like it?
CHRISTIAN: Un-huh. I'd like it.
KID: You want dessert?
CHRISTIAN: No. You?
KID: ( shakes head ) I don't need it.
CHRISTIAN: I don't need it.
KID: Neither do I.
KID: You still haven't said it.
CHRISTIAN: Said what?
KID: If you're coming back.
CHRISTIAN: Maybe I ought to stay with Mama and Papa a while, and see.
KID: What's to see?
CHRISTIAN: I never did like city streets.
KID: Uh-huh. The promise didn't fulfill itself for me.
CHRISTIAN: Uh-huh. The promise didn't fulfill itself for me.
KID: Come to the city and all. Electric lights and flush toilets. All the pretty dreams it was all promise.
CHRISTIAN: Come to the city and all. Electric lights and flush toilets. All the pretty dreams it was all promise.
KID: Oh, I see.
CHRISTIAN: I don't know if you do or not Kid You're city and I'm country You grew up with it.
KID: I don't think that's why you're going because you like it so much better in the country.
CHRISTIAN: What will you do?
KID: Well, I've got that big game.
CHRISTIAN: I heard he's The Man for you.
KID: Yes. If I won, there would be a lot of money.
CHRISTIAN: You'll win. You been coming on strong a long way. This is your time. Come home with me to Mama's Kid.
KID: ( finally ) I'm sorry.
CHRISTIAN: ( gently ) I know you are honey I know it.
KID: I'll go down to the bus with you.
CHRISTIAN: You don't have to.
KID: ( starting to dress ) I'll go down with you.
CHRISTIAN: ( after a pause ) This is going to sound kind of funny to you, but I want to ask it.
KID: This is going to sound kind of funny to you, but I want to ask it.
CHRISTIAN: This is going to sound kind of funny to you, but I want to ask it.
KID: Do you think there's any chance, if you do win this big game, that you might do something else besides cards? I don't mean never play poker. I just mean not have it be the only thing you do.
CHRISTIAN: Do you think there's any chance, if you do win this big game, that you might do something else besides cards? I don't mean never play poker. I just mean not have it be the only thing you do.
KID: Hell, it's the only thing I know how to do. What else is there for a guy never finished school? College graduates are walking the streets looking for jobs trained people, engineers, scientists!
CHRISTIAN: I realize
KID: ( not letting her speak ) When you're The Man, you don't have to hustle When you're The Man, The Best, the Big Money comes around on their knees just beggin' to hustle you. I'm not goin' to quit. I'm goin' to win.
CHRISTIAN: Yes, I can see that. Of course I didn't say quit.
KID: Well you see how it is.
CHRISTIAN: That's all right.
KID: ( after a moment ) Christian, you aren't doing this to be off my back, in case I lose?
CHRISTIAN: I been thinking about it a long time. I been planning to go home and see how I felt about things.
KID: And this just helped you decide.
CHRISTIAN: That's all.
KID: Then don't go.
CHRISTIAN: ( firmly ) No, this is your time Now you go on Honey and you play The Man I'll be at Mama's.
KID: I wish it could be more.
CHRISTIAN: That's all right.
CHRISTIAN: I don't guess I'll ever forget these rooms, Kid.
KID: I don't guess I will either.
CHRISTIAN: You going to move?
KID: If I win, it won't be good enough. If I lose, I lose it all.
CHRISTIAN: Goodbye, Kid. Good luck.
KID: Goodbye, Christian.
BILL: Four stacks? Right, Schooter?
SHOOTER: The Shooter takes advantage of the lull in the proceedings to move to the telephone.
BILL: Thank you for the entertainment, gentlemen. My particular gratitude to you, Lancey. It's been a rare pleasure to watch a great artist at work. Thank you for the privilege.
LANCEY: Well now, son, you're quite welcome. Can't say I recall another man, in all my days on the three rivers, who seemed to find it quite so pleasurable losing all that money.
BILL: Good day, gentlemen. You're welcome to use the premises as long as you
BILL: I want to see you.
SHOOTER: ( into phone ) Hi, Kid. Shooter here. Listen, I told the woman I'd take her to the ball park, but I'm still working. How about you and Christian take her ( into phone ) Christian's gone home to see her ( into phone ) ( then ) Well listen, would you mind taking her yourself? The gang'll be there, in the section. Thanks. Appreciate it. See you.
KID: ( into phone ) Christian's gone home to see her ( into phone ) ( then ) Well listen, would you mind taking her yourself? The gang'll be there, in the section. Thanks. Appreciate it. See you.
SHOOTER: ( into phone ) ( then ) Well listen, would you mind taking her yourself? The gang'll be there, in the section. Thanks. Appreciate it. See you.
SOKAL: ( to Hoban ) You owe me two fish on the out, plus three on the inning, minus two on no strikeouts so far.
HOBAN: Hiya, Kid. Getting yourself in shape for The Man? Shooter still on the job?
HOBAN'S WOMAN: Where's Christian?
MELBA: ( in a whisper ) Lay off that.
PIG: What'd she do, take off? So did mine. Don't lose no sweat, Kid, there's plenty more where they came from. All shapes and sizes.
KID: Hi, Hoban. Sokal. Pig.
HOBAN: ( to Sokal ) Boyer. One to two on the sacrifice.
SOKAL: Five to three, I'll give you. Two- fifty against one-fifty.
HOBAN: Mark it.
SOKAL: I figure they'll walk him. Fill up Not with who's coming up. I'll take the same odds.
KID: Not with who's coming up. I'll take the same odds.
MELBA: Get some of this sun.
SOKAL: ( to The Kid ) Mark it.
KID: ( to Melba ) Guess I will.
HOBAN: Bunting, Sokal.
SOKAL: So they pitched to him. I still win.
PIG: ( to Kid ) Everybody been on the phone to everybody about coming to watch you and Lancey. Big Spriigi, Yeller to N'Orleans, Old Lady Fingers. They're all coming.
MELBA: ( to Kid ) Let me give you some of this. Keep you from burning.
KID: I don't think
MELBA: Can't hurt you. Chance to invest your profits. Bet you an even fin he make first.
HOBAN: ( to Sokal ) Chance to invest your profits. Bet you an even fin he make first.
SOKAL: ( looking toward plate ) Who we got Warwick? You got yourself a bet, pal.
SOKAL'S VOICE: Not your day, Hoban. Hey, beer!
MELBA: ( softly ) Mais tu es charmant
MELBA: Charmant. Come here, please.
KID: Any special reason?
MELBA: Me. I'm special.
KID: Sure you are. You're The Shooter's Right. And maybe I'll go on being The Shooter's Woman, even after you and I have had our little romp. What do you think about that?
MELBA: Right. And maybe I'll go on being The Shooter's Woman, even after you and I have had our little romp. What do you think about that?
KID: First place, Old Shooter'll come barging through that door any minute. He said they were winding it up.
MELBA: No barging. He doesn't have his key with him. Have to buzz from downstairs. So we can treat ourselves to a little sample of things to come.
KID: Also it don't mean anything to you, you're Christian's friend?
MELBA: Honey, she lost her franchise the minute she got on that bus. You know I have a shaky sense of security, Kid. Don't make me feel unwanted.
MELBA: No good?
KID: You know damn well how good it was. Where's a pack of cards?
MELBA: What do we need cards for?
KID: Gin or casino, you name it. All I know is we're switching to another indoor sport.
SHOOTER: Lady Fingers'll want to come, I bet, and she's right on the edge of her stake. She could spell me dealing.
LANCEY: Sure, sure. Haven't seen the dear old bitch in fifteen years.
SHOOTER: Well, that's it, then. Monday night, Room Three-Eleven at the Dorset Hotel. And may the best man win.
LANCEY: Yes, that's how it usually comes out in the long run. You think this boy is going to give me trouble, Shooter?
SHOOTER: Yeah, he's going to give you trouble.
LANCEY: I don't want it to be one of those marathon games. Not any more.
SHOOTER: Like the session with The Portugee at Jolly's in Omaha. Remember?
LANCEY: Sure, sure. Longest game I ever played though, I was a kid on my way to the Klondike gold rush. At Soapy Smith's in Skagway. Four nights and three You win?
SHOOTER: You win?
LANCEY: Depends how you look at it. When we wound up, the Yukon River had frozen over and you couldn't get through to Dawson City till the following June. Made myself a Hundred and fifty bucks and missed the gold rush.
SHOOTER: You been around a long time.
LANCEY: That is undeniably true. But it doesn't mean I'm ready to retire. How old is this boy of yours?
SHOOTER: Twenty-six, twenty-eight, something like that.
LANCEY: Well, now, makes me feel a whole lot better, knowing that. I was thirty- six when I sliced up Eddie the Dude. This Kid of yours is just going to have to wait a few years.
FELIX: Excuse me, Mr. Shooter, sir, but Mr. Schlaegel asked me to remind you how eager he was to see you.
SHOOTER: I ought to call my woman.
FELIX: Yes, of course. They always like to know it if you're going to be late for supper.
MELBA: Still building eights.
KID: Thanks for putting it together for
MELBA: It's not my game.
MELBA: Want to know what is?
MELBA: ( into phone ) Hello Oh, hi, sugar why not?
MELBA: ( into phone ) What's the switch? ( into phone ) Whose idea was that?
MELBA: ( into phone ) Whose idea was that?
MELBA: ( to Kid ) He's not coming home now.
MELBA: ( into phone ) Whatever you say, Shooter man.
SHOOTER: ( into phone ) Explain to The Kid, will you?
MELBA: ( into phone ) He'll understand.
SHOOTER: ( into phone ) Tell him they decided to play a little longer, and I'll call him at his place later when the game's over. Right. Goodbye, honey.
KID: Listen, Melba
MELBA: I have to tell you first. You're sitting down with Lancey next Monday I wish it was sooner. I wish it was Shooter'll give you all the details I don't like waiting that long.
KID: I wish it was sooner. I wish it was Shooter'll give you all the details I don't like waiting that long.
MELBA: Shooter'll give you all the details I don't like waiting that long.
KID: I don't like waiting that long.
MELBA: Let's not kick a gift horse in the teeth, sugar. We've got this time together. Let's try to "fill each unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run."
KID: Listen, what I was going to say before, I don't want you to think I'm being some kind of jerk or I don't feel you'd be great to sack up Then let's cut the filibuster.
MELBA: Then let's cut the filibuster.
KID: I've made dolls that were friends of mine's wives. I figured if they were willing, they were doing it to their husbands, I wasn't.
MELBA: Of course. Any other attitude, you're degrading the woman. You're not treating her as a person with a mind of her own, but as somebody's Only thing is, it's different with The Shooter than anybody else. He's so straight, I got the obligation to be straighter with him than other people. So do you. On account of we both owe him plenty.
KID: Only thing is, it's different with The Shooter than anybody else. He's so straight, I got the obligation to be straighter with him than other people. So do you. On account of we both owe him plenty.
MELBA: I thought we just agreed that what you and I did was strictly between Can't be. Shooter's the closest thing to family I got. It's almost like he was my old man. Don't you see how that's got a bearing on us?
KID: Can't be. Shooter's the closest thing to family I got. It's almost like he was my old man. Don't you see how that's got a bearing on us?
MELBA: Sure, it means I'm your mother.
BILL: Shooter very generous of you to come on such short notice. Rosanna you know, and I think you've met my daughter June. No point introducing you to William the Fourth. He has a bad memory for Mrs. Schlaegel. How are you, June. What's it all about, Bill?
SHOOTER: ( greeting them in turn ) Mrs. Schlaegel. How are you, June. What's it all about, Bill?
BILL: Little something I'd like to sound you out on. But the least I can do is offer you a drink.
ROSANNA: Like me to fix it, love?
BILL: Wonderful. Why don't you do a batch of your Bloody Marys? If that's okay with you, Shooter?
SHOOTER: Great. Whatever.
ROSANNA: Just don't let it get wet again.
BILL: I've been quite busy on the telephone since I last saw you. There's a lot of interest all over the country in this game with Lancey and The Kid.
SHOOTER: Betting interest?
BILL: Jack Doyle in New York is giving twelve to five on Lancey. Same odds in Reno. I've taken fifty thousand of it so far.
SHOOTER: Fifty thousand!
BILL: I'll probably go for more but I didn't want to rock the odds.
SHOOTER: I knew you liked The Kid's style but why you going in so deep?
BILL: Two reasons. First, I want to see that smug old bastard gutted worse than he gutted me. Second, as long as that's going to happen, I don't see why I shouldn't make some money out of it.
SHOOTER: But how can you be so sure? The Kid could do it, we both know that, but
BILL: "Could" isn't good enough for a man who hates to lose money as much as I do. He's going to need help from the best man with a pack of cards between Omaha and New Orleans.
SHOOTER: Not a chance, Bill. You ought to know I never ever use what I got with the cards for nothing but tricks and dressing up a game.
BILL: Sure, I know it. That's why you're the man they choose to give them a square deal. That's what makes it so perfect. Nobody'll be looking for It's out. Out.
SHOOTER: It's out. Out.
BILL: The great thing is they'll be so close, The Kid won't need much. Three or four key hands.
SHOOTER: Understand this, Bill. I'd like for The Kid to win, and I sure as hell don't want to see you lose all that If I did, I'd have to collect that twelve grand you owe me. Not myself. My collection agents. You knew poor Wildwood Jones, didn't you?
BILL: If I did, I'd have to collect that twelve grand you owe me. Not myself. My collection agents. You knew poor Wildwood Jones, didn't you?
SHOOTER: OK but I'm paying it off! It's comin' in ain't it? Six grand already. Bill, you got to listen to me !
BILL: No, I don't. It's quite the other way around. You have some delusion you're a free agent, but you're not. I own you.
SHOOTER: For God's sake !
BILL: Shut up. I'll cross the twelve off the books and give you ten thousand dollars in cash. And you can tell The Kid if he needs more of a stake, I'll put it up. Marvelous. Here's Rosanna with what you need.
BILL: for that dry feeling on the roof of your mouth.
BOY: Shine them up for you sir?
KID: No, thanks.
BOY: Fetch you a newspaper maybe?
KID: How about a singy-song then? I play Play what?
BOY: How about a singy-song then? I play Play what?
KID: Play what?
BOY: Dry corn in this one. Blue shale stone from the river in this one. You ready?
KID: Yes, I'm ready.
BOY: ( to bartender ) You ready?
BARTENDER: Hell, I'm ready for anything.
KID: ( when the song is over ) Thank you very much. That was nice. Where did you learn to do that?
BOY: I picked it up from Herman.
KID: Who is Herman?
BOY: My friend I pick it up from.
KID: Is he a good friend?
BOY: I don't know 'bout that suh. He just a frien' who teach me some things.
KID: Well, I don't want a shine, but here's fifteen cents.
BOY: Thank you, sir.
BARTENDER: And here's another dime for you,
BARTENDER: Nice little colored kid.
KID: ( mostly to himself )
JANSEN: Monday night, uh, Kid?
KID: Monday night.
JANSEN: I sprung for some of the action. A yard and a half of that five-to-two.
KID: Thanks, Jansen. We got to get you loosened up. I never felt you this tight.
JANSEN: We got to get you loosened up. I never felt you this tight.
KID: ( into phone ) Just tell The Shooter I'll be there on the dot Monday night.
MELBA'S VOICE: ( over the phone ) And until then?
KID: He doesn't have to know.
MELBA: ( into phone ) I'm not asking for him.
CHRISTIAN: Hello, Kid.
KID: Can I help you with those?
CHRISTIAN: Taking if off is harder than taking it on in.
CHRISTIAN: How's The Shooter?
KID: You haven't played yet?
CHRISTIAN: You haven't played yet?
KID: INT. CRAIGIE KITCHEN - CHRISTIAN, THE KID AND MRS. CRAIGIE MRS. CRAIGIE, Christian's mother, opens the door for them, giving The Kid a sharp, appraising glance.
CHRISTIAN: This is Eric, Mama. He's come to see How do, Eric.
MRS. CRAIGIE: How do, Eric.
CHRISTIAN: We lost suction on the pump right in the middle of canning.
MRS. CRAIGIE: There's coffee. And sour ham and bread in the warmer, if you're hungry
MRS. CRAIGIE: You know anything about canning, you know we can't stop now. If we'd been looking for company, we never would have started.
CHRISTIAN: Spring beans, you have to cook them fast. But you find yourself some I'm all right. Bus stopped for doughnuts and coffee.
KID: I'm all right. Bus stopped for doughnuts and coffee.
CHRISTIAN: You can stay with us tonight and still make it back to St. Lou on the Sunday schedule by about midnight. I told Mama and Papa about The Man. And all.
KID: Where is Mr. Craigie?
MRS. CRAIGIE: To the barn. Why don't you go down and introduce yourself? Christian and me'll be at this another hour or I think I will. I think I'd like Sure. And I'll see you a little later Papa don't know everything. About you and me.
KID: I think I will. I think I'd like Sure. And I'll see you a little later Papa don't know everything. About you and me.
CHRISTIAN: Sure. And I'll see you a little later Papa don't know everything. About you and me.
CRAIGIE: How do you do, Mr. Craigie. I'm Eric Christian's Eric.
KID: How do you do, Mr. Craigie. I'm Eric Christian's Eric.
CRAIGIE: Christian's Eric.
KID: That's right.
CRAIGIE: You seen her?
KID: She's helping her mother can.
CRAIGIE: You minding to marry Christian?
KID: You got any objections if I do, or if I don't?
CRAIGIE: Son, that's what I call a sharp It was what I call a sharp question.
KID: It was what I call a sharp question.
CRAIGIE: We don't know much about you, Christian's mother and me.
KID: I'm what's known as a three-river man. Which just means I go around playing stud poker wherever I can find the kind of action I'm looking You met Christian when she was working to Hot Springs?
CRAIGIE: You met Christian when she was working to Hot Springs?
KID: Yeah. I was playing in this game in the hotel and she was a waitress in the coffee shop. We went out. I told her I thought she could get a better job in St. Louis.
CRAIGIE: Now how did you happen to tell her that? Maybe you run some kind of employment service on the side?
KID: I said it because I wanted her in St. Louis. Anyway, she made it there and she called me and we been seeing each other ever since.
CRAIGIE: Living together? Yeah, living together.
KID: Yeah, living together.
CRAIGIE: How come she come home now? She going to have a baby?
KID: Not that I know of.
CRAIGIE: You two have a fight?
KID: She must have had a reason.
CRAIGIE: She must have had a reason.
KID: Think so? Well, you've known her longer than me. Look, Mr. Craigie, let me and Christian find out a few things then maybe I won't have to answer your I never run across anybody like you. I guess I don't understand gamblers.
CRAIGIE: I never run across anybody like you. I guess I don't understand gamblers.
KID: That's all right. I don't understand You say things that sound smart alecky. But I'm not sure if they really are smart alecky.
CRAIGIE: You say things that sound smart alecky. But I'm not sure if they really are smart alecky.
KID: Well I can't take into account what somebody's going to feel every time I say something.
CRAIGIE: Are you a believer?
KID: In some things.
CRAIGIE: I mean in God.
KID: That's a tough one. I don't disbelieve in Him, but I couldn't say I believed in Him either. I guess I just never paid Him much mind. Didn't seem God not important?
CRAIGIE: God not important?
KID: I don't mean what He does isn't important if He exists. I mean it's not important to me whether He exists or not.
CRAIGIE: Christian was raised in a Christian Is that so? I didn't know - I'm not aware of the difference. I'm not asking permission to marry Christian, you know.
KID: Is that so? I didn't know - I'm not aware of the difference. I'm not asking permission to marry Christian, you know.
CRAIGIE: I know.
KID: If I was, the only person I'd be asking it from is her.
CRAIGIE: ( after a moment ) Who is this fella Christian says you're going to play that's so He's the king of the stud poker And you're going to play him.
KID: He's the king of the stud poker And you're going to play him.
CRAIGIE: And you're going to play him.
KID: Are you any good?
CRAIGIE: Are you any good?
KID: I'm this good. The Man has got to play me.
CRAIGIE: What happens if he don't?
KID: Then I'm The Man.
CRAIGIE: That important to you?
KID: I been trying to figure that out ever since I set it up.
CRAIGIE: You playing because of money?
KID: ( after a moment ) Not really.
CRAIGIE: Christian said you never was much worried about money I been worried about money most of my life up until I figured out it wasn't so No, it's necessary, but it isn't so Well how come you want to play this King fella?
KID: No, it's necessary, but it isn't so Well how come you want to play this King fella?
CRAIGIE: Well how come you want to play this King fella?
KID: Ambition maybe security, like Is it aspiration to be the King or just uncertainty about the future?
CRAIGIE: Is it aspiration to be the King or just uncertainty about the future?
KID: I ain't looking for security if that's what you mean.
CRAIGIE: Not trying to lock something up tight and nail it down?
KID: That would figure into it. But that isn't all of it. It's important to me.
CRAIGIE: Now son which is more important to you, this king business or Christian?
KID: If you got the guts to ask that question, Mr. Craigie, I guess I got the guts to answer it. Christian, if you came right down to it, is not as important as doing what I have to Well son, I had to know.
CRAIGIE: Well son, I had to know.
KID: Know what?
CRAIGIE: There never was a man worth a damn, to my mind, who let his woman stand in the way of the thing he had to I got to go now see what I can do for a sick heifer. Why don't you take Christian, when her Mama lets go of her, and tell her I said you should go to the old spring. It's a good place.
KID: Thanks. I'll tell her.
CHRISTIAN: It stays warm all winter.
CHRISTIAN: Papa's mama used to bring her wash up here.
KID: We liable to draw an audience?
CHRISTIAN: Don't worry. It's on our land Nobody uses it.
CHRISTIAN: You must have said something to Papa gave him the picture on us in St. Lou. Else he never would have spoke to you about this place.
KID: I told him on account of he already knew. Never any sense feeding a man a lie he's not going to believe.
CHRISTIAN: Even if he did know, I'm glad you told him.
KID: ( in mock protest ) Hey, you're all wet!
CHRISTIAN: So are you, foolish.
CRAIGIE: Let me get this straight in my head. Cards is all a matter of luck, who gets dealt the best ones.
CRAIGIE: So when one of you professional gamblers sits down with a bunch of your what do you call them customers, clients?
KID: The technical term is "suckers." Or Their chance of winning is just as good as yours, except if you got a way to control it, who gets what cards. Right?
CRAIGIE: Their chance of winning is just as good as yours, except if you got a way to control it, who gets what cards. Right?
KID: Not right. That's cheating and it's not any part of what we're talking Then how do you win?
CRAIGIE: Then how do you win?
KID: I'll show you.
KID: You see one of these cards is white on both sides, one is red on both sides, and the other is white on one side, red on the other.
CRAIGIE: What about it?
KID: This. I put the three cards in a hat and shake them up, and then I ask you to draw one card out blind. Put it face down on the table so neither of us can see the bottom side.
KID: Okay, red on top. That eliminates the all-white card, right. So the card you've picked is one of two the all-red or the red-and-white. One out of two is an even chance, an even-money proposition. Right you follow me?
CRAIGIE: I think so.
KID: So if I said I'll bet you a dollar to seventy-five cents the other side of that card is red, you'd take the bet wouldn't you?
CRAIGIE: Seems like. Yeah.
KID: And that answer makes you a sucker. Because the odds are two to one, the other side of that card is red, and I ought to be offering you a dollar to fifty cents instead of seventy- But if there are just the two There are three possibilities. That can be the red side of the red- and-white card, or it can be either side of the all-red card. In two cases out of three the other side is red. And I'd win the bet from you two out of every three times we made You would?
CRAIGIE: But if there are just the two There are three possibilities. That can be the red side of the red- and-white card, or it can be either side of the all-red card. In two cases out of three the other side is red. And I'd win the bet from you two out of every three times we made You would?
KID: There are three possibilities. That can be the red side of the red- and-white card, or it can be either side of the all-red card. In two cases out of three the other side is red. And I'd win the bet from you two out of every three times we made You would?
CRAIGIE: ( dubiously ) You would?
KID: Sure. It's obvious when I explain it, isn't it?
CRAIGIE: Reckon so. Except if there's only two things that the bottom side can be, red or white
KID: Take my word for it the odds are two to one. And knowing that is the difference between your gambling man and your sucker. Not who gets the better cards but who knows what the proper odds are. In a poker game there can be a million different situations, each with a different set of odds to figure. The man who ends up winners is the man who knows when to bet and how much.
CRAIGIE: The sucker is still took advantage of, isn't he? The gambler knows something he don't know.
KID: Sure like if you grow better corn or raise a cow that gives more milk than the other guy's. Or two business men are in competition, or two lawyers are up against each other in a courtroom. Whatever your line is, the one who wins out is the one who knows his job better.
CRAIGIE: Seems like there should be something else to it
KID: There is Making the man you're playing against think he's got the best hand and making him pay to find out.
CHRISTIAN: I can't stay long. Papa'll be getting up to milk.
KID: I'm the one can't stay. I got to head for that bus.
CHRISTIAN: Why did you come, Kid?
KID: Well, hell, I don't know. I had kind of a rough time after you left.
CHRISTIAN: Rough how?
KID: Tuesday there was a ball game, but then the Cardinals went on the road. I never known time to drag so; I was all torn apart
CHRISTIAN: Because of the poker game coming up?
KID: That's how I read it, but I was reading it wrong. It wasn't Lancey or the game that was chewing at my What else is there could give you such a bad time?
CHRISTIAN: What else is there could give you such a bad time?
KID: I finally figured it. I located where the trouble was. It was you.
CHRISTIAN: She kisses him.
KID: When you talk about doing something besides poker if I get to be The Man, you don't mean pass up the chance to make some dough from it for a I sure don't. I told Papa, wherever money comes from, it feels the same when you spend it.
CHRISTIAN: I sure don't. I told Papa, wherever money comes from, it feels the same when you spend it.
KID: You were going to do some thinking down here.
CHRISTIAN: I done some.
KID: I'll be back after the game Christian You wait here for me and I'll let you know.
CHRISTIAN: All right Eric Good luck Monday.
KID: I got that made now. You said it right. My time's come.
SHOOTER: Twenty-five years I been building a Handle this thing right and your reputation will be better than ever.
MELBA: Handle this thing right and your reputation will be better than ever.
SHOOTER: I made up my mind to this. I ain't going to give him any help till he needs it.
MELBA: I'm glad you're taking a stand.
SHOOTER: Hey, what if he starts off lucky and stays ahead of the game the whole way. It could happen, you know.
MELBA: You'll make it happen, Baby. I've got faith in you
KID: Once more around the square.
LANCEY: It's a friendly town, St. Louis. I've always said that.
SHOOTER: We ain't seen much of you though, last seven, eight years.
LANCEY: Climate, Shooter. In my declining years, I spend more and more time in Florida and the Gulf Coast.
LADY FINGERS: Lot of folks been figuring another reason you was keeping clear of the three rivers.
LANCEY: What reason is that, Lady Fingers?
LADY FINGERS: Cincinnati Kid. That the way it is, Lancey? You been scared of The Kid?
LANCEY: Should I be scared of him?
LADY FINGERS: Damn right you should! I'm telling you, that boy going to make your stomach ulcer bleed before the night is out. He's close to murder. I seen him give a fella the shakes so bad on a fourth card, it took a pint of corn liquor to settle him down.
LANCEY: Thanks for the warning.
MELBA: Mow the man down, sugar pie, make it quick and bloody. Been too many lean years for all of us.
KID: I intend to take Shooter right along with Lancey.
MELBA: I'm not talking about the old Shooter. He's been factory rebuilt. A new spirit dwelleth in him, and his gaze is on distant hills.
LADY FINGERS: So you showed up after all. You're a braver boy than I thought, so much the worse for you.
KID: You think I'll be sorry I come?
LADY FINGERS: Bound to. That Lancey ain't human, he's one of them barracuda fish. He's liable to bleed to death, right on a flush hand before he give up to you. I seen him gut a fella so bad, the fella quit and got up and spit red in the john and went square.
LANCEY: Hello, Kid. Pleasure to know you.
KID: Lancey. I been looking forward a long time.
LANCEY: Sure, sure. You seem to know about everybody. Yeller from New Orleans?
KID: What do you say, Yeller? Still feeling salty with me?
YELLER: Forgiven long since. We had a little jurisdictional I hustled a couple of boys, right in his territory.
KID: I hustled a couple of boys, right in his territory.
YELLER: So I tried to tell him our rules down there. Colored marks are for colored hustlers.
KID: And I tried to tell him how I got no prejudice. When I'm on the edge of my stake, I hustle anybody at all, regardless of race, creed or color. Anybody at all.
YELLER: Including my girl.
KID: Hell, I figured I was doin' you a You did.
YELLER: You did.
LADY FINGERS: ( to Lancey ) Did you know Old Cottonhead died?
LANCEY: No, I hadn't heard.
LADY FINGERS: Heart give out in a high-low game.
LANCEY: ( turning to The Kid ) How you feel, Kid?
KID: Great. You?
LANCEY: The best. You think maybe we ought to see if we can stir up some action?
KID: Whatever you say, Lancey. You're the You're our guest in this town.
LANCEY: Well, I'm kind of in the mood to play a little cards.
KID: I think we ought to be able to get a game together in this crowd.
LANCEY: But first you take a look at things make sure everything's the way you want it. I already been around.
KID: Thanks. I'll do that.
SHOOTER: It's an old table. Everything's pretty old in this hotel.
KID: It's solid, that's what counts. And you got the top fixed perfect.
LANCEY: Light all right for you?
SHOOTER: Two hundred watt bulb.
KID: Fine, excellent. Okay with you?
LANCEY: Sure, sure. Shooter's set us up just Sure has.
KID: Sure has.
SHOOTER: Thank you, gents. Tried to do the best I could. Why not?
LANCEY: Why not?
KID: Good a time as any.
SHOOTER: ( calling ) Hoban! Okay! ( to Kid and Lancey ) You both know Joe Hoban. He's a draw poker man, but clean and straight as they come.
HOBAN: They come from the St. Louis Bridge Club, but they're poker size cards. They been bonded by the club steward and I seen him take them out of the safe. Shooter, Lady Fingers and me pick them up and come straight here with them.
SHOOTER: Hoban's selling them to us at five dollars a pack, with the usual guarantee. If it's proved any deck is spooked, he pays off the losers.
LANCEY: St. Louis Bridge Club, eh? Steward still that old yard bird Okra?
HOBAN: ( disturbed ) That's him.
LANCEY: ( not noticing; to Kid ) Old stud man, Okra.
KID: I don't know him.
LANCEY: Quite a character. Quite a character.
HOBAN: ( anxiously ) Nobody heard from me what the cards were for, Kid.
LANCEY: ( to Kid ) Been ten years since I seen or spoke to Old Okra.
KID: 'Kay, fine. Don't worry about it, Lancey. Who's sitting down with us, Four of us. Me, Pig, Yeller and Doc Sokal. If that's all right with you 'Kay, fine.
SHOOTER: Four of us. Me, Pig, Yeller and Doc Sokal. If that's all right with you 'Kay, fine.
KID: 'Kay, fine.
LANCEY: Sure, sure. Shall we have a look at the decks?
LANCEY: Well, Kid, what's your game? I don't mind stud poker if that's okay with you.
KID: I don't mind stud poker if that's okay with you.
LANCEY: I got no objections to stud.
BILL: Tell The Kid I have a suite on the fifth floor. He can drop up during the breaks. Bedroom all for him any time he wants a nap.
SHOOTER: That's thoughtful of you, Bill.
BILL: I'm a thoughtful man. I hope you
LANCEY: Privilege of age. Can't take the glare of the morning sun in my eyes.
SHOOTER: You want to have the usual brandy and coffee on hand, Kid? Anything special for you, Lancey?
LANCEY: Why, yes, Shooter. Creme de menthe frappe. Green.
SHOOTER: ( glances around ) You got that, Hoban? ( to the table ) Gentlemen, if there are no objections, I'm the dealer. These rooms have been contracted for, and there will be an ante of ten dollars per chair, per day. During the breaks for me, Old Lady Fingers has agreed to deal, but she don't care to be a player
LADY FINGERS: Can't afford to play, that's the real truth. Had a bad year and I'm way over my edge.
SHOOTER: Lady Fingers will get three dollars an hour from the ante, plus her room and food, and a five-minute break every hour. Gents?
LANCEY: Fine, Shooter man.
KID: 'Kay with us.
LADY FINGERS: If you don't see me when you need me, call room three-oh-eight. You know who else ain't with us no more? Miriam, widow used to run the kitchen game to South Chi. Lost two month's Relief at blackjack, coal dealer cut her credit, and she froze in her bed.
SHOOTER: Gentlemen, this is a game of five- card stud poker. There is no limit. A dead man has one half hour to raise his roll outside and get back in the
LANCEY: Five grand? Nice, tidy sum. I'll put out the same.
YELLER: I swear I don't know what I'm doing sitting down with you titans, but maybe it's worth putting up five thousand for the educational value.
PIG: I'll play with what I have in my pocket till I have to send out for more. Twenty-seven, twenty-eight hundred, I don't know.
SOKAL: Five G's, I'm with it. Don't mean I'm goin' blow it all, though.
SHOOTER: Last and certainly least
SHOOTER: Seven, nine, trey, nine, ace, and The Shooter guns up a ten. Ace bets.
LANCEY: Ten dollars.
SHOOTER: Dealer folds.
SOKAL: Call the sawbuck.
KID: I'm in.
PIG'S VOICE: YELLER'S VOICE
YELLER'S VOICE: THE POKER TABLE The Shooter deals again.
SHOOTER: King to the seven, pair of nines, deuce to the trey, queen-nine, ace- Nines bet twenty bucks.
KID: Nines bet twenty bucks.
SHOOTER: Queen, ten, king, four, ace again, and a king for The Shooter.
LANCEY: Ace bets ten dollars
SHOOTER: King over.
HOBAN: Shooter won't stay on a king or an ace if there's another one showing.
BILL: What's he have to have in the hole?
HOBAN: Ten or better. With no other ten
LANCEY: New deck.
PIG: Aces over eights. Thank you, gents. Be a laugh if the two champs ended up cleaned.
BILL: Any action?
HOBAN: ( shrugs ) What do you expect first five or six Still feeling each other out?
BILL: Still feeling each other out?
HOBAN: Pig's ahead about a grand, Shooter maybe three hundred.
SHOOTER'S VOICE: King bets.
YELLER: King says twenty.
PIG: In for twenty.
SHOOTER: ( dealing ) To the nine a ten, to the queen a seven, to the king a jack, and to the jack a jack.
LANCEY: Pair of jacks will venture a hundred I'm in.
SOKAL: ( who has the nine and ten of clubs showing ) I'm in.
PIG: ( after studying the board ) Up two hundred dollars.
YELLER: ( folding ) Leave it to the rich folk.
BILL: Lancey could be laying for him with three jacks.
HOBAN: Pig don't think so.
SOKAL: I'm sticking.
SHOOTER: Possible straight flush, pair of sevens. Pair of jacks are still high.
LANCEY: Check to the sevens.
SOKAL: ( trying to be casual ) Bet the size of the pot. Nine hundred and eighty dollars.
PIG: ( trying to be casual ) Bet the size of the pot. Nine hundred and eighty dollars.
LANCEY: In for nine eighty.
SOKAL: I'll play.
BILL: What's with Lancey? I thought he'd raise with three jacks or drop with two pair.
HOBAN: He probably thinks Pig's faking the queens. Anyhow, Doc's liable take them both with a straight or a flush.
SHOOTER: Busted, no flush, no straight. Pair of sevens with a queen gets a nine. To the pair of jacks, a trey.
PIG: ( counting his money, trying to be calm ) Pair of sevens will bet whatever I got here. Twenty-four hundred bucks.
LANCEY: I'll call your twenty-four hundred
LANCEY: Comes to fourteen hundred fifty dollars, Pig. Don't imagine you'll have any problem promoting that much in half an hour plus whatever you care to raise me.
SHOOTER: Fourteen fifty to the queens. You want to take your half hour, Pig? No, I'm out. Out of the game.
PIG: No, I'm out. Out of the game.
SHOOTER: ( to Pig ) You Tap City?
PIG: I got a woman.
SHOOTER: I thought you and Hilda were quits.
PIG: We're back.
SHOOTER: See you around, Pig.
PLAYERS: ( ad lib ) So long, Pig See you 'Night.
PIG: ( getting up ) So long.
PIG: Good luck Kid.
SHOOTER: He shouldn't have said that. Not after taking Tap City from the table.
KID: His woman's been giving him a rough time. Wants him to quit and go square.
SOKAL: At his age? Crazy.
LANCEY: He wants to wish anybody luck, doesn't bother me. Personally, I don't figure The Kid needs it.
KID: Thanks, Lancey.
SHOOTER: I know it's early, men, but what about taking a little break?
BILL: ( to Melba ) It always distresses me, a man reaching his middle years and still having no assurance of next week's I know what you mean. I like a man to have plenty of assurance.
MELBA: I know what you mean. I like a man to have plenty of assurance.
LADY FINGERS: Spider Man died kind of slow. First he give them a kidney, then his gall bladder, and then they taking his whole damn stomach. You remember Spider Man, run the dice table down at Turk's Club to Memphis.
LANCEY: Who? Oh, Spider Man, sure, sure.
LADY FINGERS: He died kind of slow.
SHOOTER: Need your help, Lady Fingers. to make arrangements for food and
LANCEY: Good crowd.
KID: Yeah. Nice-looking broads.
LANCEY: That's a fact.
KID: That was a pretty thing to watch what you done to Pig with those jacks.
LANCEY: Thanks, Kid. From you, that's nice to hear.
KID: When he bet out first, he was ready to think you had them back to back. Even when he bet the size of the pot, he figured there was still a chance you were laying for him. But when you called him, I could see it in his eyes he thought you had jacks and tens, and I knew you had him You knew, did you? Before I raised?
LANCEY: You knew, did you? Before I raised?
KID: Oh, sure, I seen what you were pulling all along.
LANCEY: You been to Miami, Kid?
KID: Not yet.
LANCEY: Beautiful town, lot of loose money around. You ought to come down some You mean it?
KID: You mean it?
LANCEY: Sure, sure. Lot of room down there. Another spot you ought to work someday is Reno, Nevada.
KID: I heard.
LANCEY: You got to have nerves though. So much going on. Action everywhere you turn. You lose the feel of the cards when you're in so much action day in, day out.
KID: I'd like to make it out there.
LANCEY: There's different levels of action there you'd find yours, any kind you could ask for.
KID: I generally stick to stud.
LANCEY: Sure, sure, for eating money. But you know how it is, I like to lay off once in a while and try craps. Nothing serious I don't even think of it as work.
KID: Oh, I do that. I'll take a night off and shoot a little casino. Or even Your age, you don't need a regular vacation every year. But me, I have to forget the grind for a couple of weeks. I go to this place near Delray Beach, and the whole time I don't play anything but bridge.
LANCEY: Your age, you don't need a regular vacation every year. But me, I have to forget the grind for a couple of weeks. I go to this place near Delray Beach, and the whole time I don't play anything but bridge.
KID: That's interesting. I could go for bridge if there was a way to do it without partners.
LANCEY: I'm not keeping you from your woman, am I?
KID: ( after a slight hesitation ) No. We're she's gone away for a while. We're not sure we're looking for the same thing.
LANCEY: I'm sorry to hear that.
KID: I was hoping Christian would run with me and wouldn't try to make a big deal out of it.
LANCEY: But she tried?
KID: Yeah, and now I don't know. I don't figure a man can change his way because the way I see it a man's lucky he's got something going for him that he can hold on to. A man can't change his way for a woman.
LANCEY: Nooo, a man can't do that.
KID: I been wondering if it isn't maybe a better idea not to look for a fixed thing. Just tie in to something nice when you're away from the action, and enjoy it, and let it wear itself That's very interesting you should say that. You're pretty young to have figured things out already.
LANCEY: ( after a long moment ) That's very interesting you should say that. You're pretty young to have figured things out already.
KID: Well she didn't understand how it was with me and -
LANCEY: ( warmly ) Between us?
KID: There ain't but a few people, I guess who would understand
LANCEY: ( as The Kid doesn't finish ) Kid, you're the best stud man I've seen in 35 years of action. You know Well thank you.
KID: Well thank you.
LANCEY: And when it comes to broads, which is getting to be an academic problem I can look back now to the two or three I ever considered I might want to spend the rest of my life with, and you know what? I like it. looking back on them, that is I always got a lot of companionship out of a good book.
KID: It's very educational, hearing what it's like for a man your age.
LANCEY: Glad to be of help. And it's good we had this little talk so I know we can be friends regardless what That sounds good to me. I didn't think you was coming in at me like a grudge match.
KID: That sounds good to me. I didn't think you was coming in at me like a grudge match.
LANCEY: No room for any kind of emotion in a fair game of stud. I learned that a long time ago.
LADY FINGERS: It's a whole New Deal. Good hands all around. Prosperity for everybody.
LANCEY: You're still good, Fingers.
LADY FINGERS: Getting crippled up, Lancey. Not many of the old gang left. You heard Whistling Sam was gone?
LANCEY: No, I didn't hear.
LADY FINGERS: I was the one got called to the morgue to identify him. I don't suppose you seen anybody been run over by a twelve- ton bulldozer.
LANCEY: No, can't say that I have.
LADY FINGERS: Don't go out of your way.
SHOOTER: Bet the pot. Four hundred and twenty It's yours.
SOKAL: It's yours.
KID: It's yours.
SHOOTER: Thanks, gents. Makes me exactly even. This kind of a game, that's a smart place to quit. Just do the dealing, if that's all right with everybody.
SHOOTER: Ace-king is the high man.
SOKAL: Shoot the works. Nine hundred and thirty bucks.
YELLER: I'm over.
LANCEY: ( putting out the money ) What have you got?
SOKAL: ( unhappily ) Doesn't matter. If you can call me, you beat me. Ace-king high.
LANCEY: ( turning an ace ) Ace-king-queen high.
YELLER: ( to The Kid ) I had them both with a pair of fives.
SOKAL: Winds it up for me, men. And I can't say it's been a pleasure. That one I was sure I could steal.
YELLER: Lancey has a built-in burglar alarm. I'm also withdrawing from the field of battle, gentlemen. Settle for the seventeen hundred I've already
LANCEY: ( to The Kid ) Well, just the two of us.
KID: Yeah, just the two of us. Deal them, Shooter Man.
KID: Cost you a grand.
LANCEY: Compulsory call, Kid.
LANCEY: Two pair, jacks up.
KID: Kings up.
THE KID: He is watching The Shooter intently.
THE KID: He takes the money in slowly, his eyes on The Shooter. Now the distribution of money has been reversed. The Kid has something under $12,000, Lancey something under $8,000.
THE SHOOTER: He avoids meeting The Kid's gaze.
LANCEY: Two thousand dollars.
KID: Call two thousand.
KID: Take it. I can't beat three sevens. I'd like a break to get some food and sleep I'm winners so it isn't up to me to say it but I'm saying it
LANCEY: ( pleasantly ) My dear, that young man is a stud poker-playing son-of-a-bitch.
LADY FINGERS: Gettin' to you, Lancey?
LANCEY: ( softly ) Not yet he isn't.
THE KID: Now, just what the hell are you trying to pull?
SHOOTER: ( trying to bluff it ) Nothing what are you talking about?
THE KID: You, Shooter Man you been feeding me cards for an hour.
SHOOTER: ( angry and ashamed ) The hell I was. ( he waits a brief moment then eases away from The Kid ) Christ, Kid, even if I was you couldn't spot it I'm too good a mechanic for anybody to spot it.
THE KID: ( grabbing him and slamming him against the wall again ) But I was looking for it, Shooter four times you give me the cards I ( a little shrill ) You seen it before often enough. One player draws four good ones.
SHOOTER: ( a little shrill ) You seen it before often enough. One player draws four good ones.
THE KID: Never in a game when I been told ahead the dealer has a stake in my coming out on top.
SHOOTER: ( slumping ) My woman told you.
THE KID: She told me enough to make me start Why should you bitch if I give you a little help?
SHOOTER: ( almost pleading ) Why should you bitch if I give you a little help?
THE KID: Why, you dumb bastard? You have to ask me why. I could break you apart for what you've done.
SHOOTER: ( backing off ) Kid, you got to understand. It wasn't my idea
THE KID: Well who the hell's was it then He's got the squeeze on me Kid and he's meaner than hell. He'll cut me up if I don't come through. You think I wanted to deal a phony game? You think it don't mean something to me? I never done a crooked thing before in my life.
SHOOTER: He's got the squeeze on me Kid and he's meaner than hell. He'll cut me up if I don't come through. You think I wanted to deal a phony game? You think it don't mean something to me? I never done a crooked thing before in my life.
THE KID: My ass bleeds for you Now you get straight on this. No fix. You come along straight or I blow it wide He's liable to kill me.
SHOOTER: He's liable to kill me.
THE KID: He ain't goin' to do nothin' to you except pay off because I'm goin' to It is a hell of a chance to take.
SHOOTER: It is a hell of a chance to take.
THE KID: You got no choice.
SHOOTER: He ain't goin' to like it.
THE KID: ( almost yelling at him ) He ain't goin' to know. ( then quietly ) Shooter, I'm goin' to win this one win it my way and you ride with me or you're out, finished.
SHOOTER: I ride with you.
THE KID: You better not forget it now beat it. I need some sleep.
THE KID: Tell Mr. Schlaegel I accept his offer to use the room.
THE KID: ( into phone ) I want to be called at 4 p.m. on the nose. For sure Thanks.
CUT TO: INT. LANCEY'S ROOM In the privacy of his room he shows how close he is to exhaustion. Wearily, he sits on the bed and begins to remove his shoes. Then, catching his reflection in the mirror, INT. BEDROOM, BILL'S SUITE - CLOSE SHOT - MELBA She is in the final stages of undressing. CAMERA MOVES with her as she steps to The Kid's bedside and gets into bed with him. Having accomplished this without waking him, she speaks into his ear in imitation of a hotel phone operator.
LANCEY: Not yet he isn't. But he damn well
CUT TO: INT. BEDROOM, BILL'S SUITE - CLOSE SHOT - MELBA She is in the final stages of undressing. CAMERA MOVES with her as she steps to The Kid's bedside and gets into bed with him. Having accomplished this without waking him, she speaks into his ear in imitation of a hotel phone operator.
MELBA: Good afternoon, sir. It's exactly four o'clock.
MELBA: It's really only about twenty-five to four. You can stay right where you are.
THE KID: I don't want you to think I'm getting too personal, but you mind telling me how the hell you come to be here?
MELBA: You mean you don't remember last night? We drank all that champagne and you said "Let's get married right away," and we chartered a plane to
THE KID: Can it Where's Shooter?
MELBA: I locked the door. It's incredible the way you invariably worry about The Shooter.
THE KID: It's incredible the way you invariably Worrying takes time and we don't have a lot.
MELBA: Worrying takes time and we don't have a lot.
THE KID: We're supposed to sit down again at half past four.
MELBA: Does it really matter so much to you now, that sense of obligation to The I got no obligations to The Shooter. Or to you.
THE KID: ( thinking about Shooter ) I got no obligations to The Shooter. ( then to Melba ) Or to you.
MELBA: Obligations are not what I have in
CUT TO: INT. LANCEY'S ROOM He is shaving. Apparently much stronger but his hand is shaking. He looks at it. It steadies. After a moment he smiles a little.
CUT TO: INT. BATHROOM, BILL'S SUITE CAMERA is on the shower door as the SOUND of running water ceases. The Kid can be seen indistinctly through the door.
THE KID: Reach me a towel?
MELBA: You any idea how much The Shooter has involved in this game of yours?
THE KID: If Schlaegel bet as much on me as I heard, I guess he'd pay a nice piece of change to be sure I won.
MELBA: It's worse than that. Schlaegel staked him for three years. He has his hooks so deep in Shooter Man, he'll take out his liver when he pulls them
THE KID: You asking me to go along with the I'm asking you to consider whether your ego is worth destroying another man's whole life.
MELBA: I'm asking you to consider whether your ego is worth destroying another man's whole life.
THE KID: You're still working for him. On my time you're still working for him.
MELBA: What kind of switch is this? You criticize me for trying to chippie on him, then I get a little loyal and you're at me for that.
THE KID: No I don't hold it against you. You wanting to make things right for him but this game I handle my way win, lose, or draw.
MELBA: Rolls and coffee for the hard-headed
MELBA: Believe me Kid there is too much at stake for us to rely on your doing it on your own.
CHRISTIAN: Hello, Kid. Hello, Melba. You said wait home 'til you let me Yeah, that's what I said. We took a break in the game to catch some sleep. Shooter sent his woman up here to wake me up.
THE KID: Yeah, that's what I said. We took a break in the game to catch some sleep. Shooter sent his woman up here to wake me up.
MELBA: Yeah, I woke him up.
CHRISTIAN: It don't take much.
MELBA: No, I didn't find it any trouble. Well, you children don't need me, that's for sure. See you downstairs. You, too, honey, right?
CHRISTIAN: I'll be around if The Kid wants me.
THE KID: See you, Melba. Thanks.
MELBA: Por nada, as they say. It was nothing.
THE KID: You been to the place?
CHRISTIAN: No, I've got my bag downstairs. Maybe I'll take it over later on tonight.
THE KID: How's your Mama and Papa?
CHRISTIAN: Fine. How's the game going?
THE KID: It's come to be just me and Lancey.
CHRISTIAN: ( after the kiss ) I was wondering.
THE KID: I got my mind on the cards.
CHRISTIAN: I know. And I don't want to rattle you. We got plenty to talk about, but it can all wait. Except I want to say this. I came back because I figured if it was going to work with us, it's silly me sitting home with Mama while you're playing your big game. I mean if I'm any use to you at all, this is when it's most
THE KID: I'm glad you came, Christian. You got as much right here as anybody. More right, I should have said.
CHRISTIAN: Should you?
THE KID: Hell, yes. The change I come out with when I win this one, you're going to be the one to spend it.
CHRISTIAN: THE KID ( turning back )
THE KID: ( turning back ) Look, I said I'm glad you came and that's all until I wrap this up I'm a poker player, remember?
THE KID: The eight'll try two bills.
LANCEY: ( turning his card ) No stay.
THE KID: Two hundred.
LANCEY: ( turning his card ) No stay.
YELLER: Naaa, Kid paired kings. He wins a
HOBAN: Naaa, Kid paired kings. He wins a
LANCEY: Queen bets another C-note.
THE KID: ( folding ) Take it away.
THE KID: Go read a magazine, honey.
LADY FINGERS: I break.
THE KID: I don't want a break.
LANCEY: Well, I don't either.
THE KID: Lady Fingers puts down the deck. Picks up a new one.
LANCEY: ( snapping ) Same deck is good enough.
THE KID: I want a new deck.
LANCEY: Alright, alright A new deck then,
THE KID: Lady Fingers looks at the two men for a long moment. Puts the cards down.
LADY FINGERS: You want to deal? Then deal them yourselves. I'm going to the john. I'm going to get something to eat, and I'm going to take a nap. You barracudas can snap all you want but at each other I'm taking a break and if you don't like it you can both go to hell.
THE KID: I guess we been told.
LANCEY: Looks that way.
THE KID: ( rising ) See you in about 3/4 of an hour, Lancey, right?
LANCEY: Make it an hour. Old bones need a little more time to loosen up.
THE KID: ( meaning it ) Listen, I think it is amazing you've been able to keep going this long. ( taking his hand ) ( simultaneously ) Your fan on the fifth floor wants you to have a bite with him. Alone.
CHRISTIAN: ( taking his hand ) ( simultaneously ) Your fan on the fifth floor wants you to have a bite with him. Alone.
SHOOTER: ( simultaneously ) Your fan on the fifth floor wants you to have a bite with him. Alone.
KID: There's nothing to talk about.
SHOOTER: You better, Kid. You don't, you're only making worse trouble.
THE KID: If you think so. What's wrong?
CHRISTIAN: What's wrong?
THE KID: Nothing, Nothing you have to worry about. I'll see you later.
THE KID: Get something to eat.
BILL: I thought it would be better if you and I sat down together to see if we couldn't work out our differences.
THE KID: What I told The Shooter goes.
BILL: Are you saying no before we've even discussed it? Am I to feel all my arguments will be wasted?
BILL: I'll skip to the final argument. More salad, perhaps?
BILL: The Shooter will be back dealing when you start again. He will give you an occasional helpful card.
THE KID: That's an argument?
BILL: That's a fact. I'm coming to the I'll give you a fact. I won't let it Is that knife sharp enough? Felix.
THE KID: I'll give you a fact. I won't let it Is that knife sharp enough? Felix.
BILL: Is that knife sharp enough? Felix.
BILL: See if it cuts better with that.
BILL: THE KID
THE KID: Very. But it don't cut any ice with
THE KID: ( rising ) Not this time. He exits.
THE KID: Did you eat?
CHRISTIAN: THE KID ( stops, looks at her irritated )
THE KID: ( stops, looks at her irritated ) Why not, for Chris sakes?
CHRISTIAN: THE KID ( moving away )
THE KID: ( moving away ) You should eat something.
CHRISTIAN: ( loudly, stopping ) I've got to talk to you.
THE KID: ( fumbling ) It's about us. What's going to ( interrupting ) What's going to happen? What's going to happen for Chris sake is I'm going to win the game. ( then more softly ) You go back to the apartment, honey, this might take two more days.
CHRISTIAN: ( fumbling ) It's about us. What's going to ( interrupting ) What's going to happen? What's going to happen for Chris sake is I'm going to win the game. ( then more softly ) You go back to the apartment, honey, this might take two more days.
THE KID: ( interrupting ) What's going to happen? What's going to happen for Chris sake is I'm going to win the game. ( then more softly ) You go back to the apartment, honey, this might take two more days.
CHRISTIAN: ( flatly ) If I go, I'm not going back to the apartment. If I go I'm just going.
THE KID: ( after a long moment ) Well, that's up to you, Christian.
THE KID: I told you, Shooter I won't go for it.
LANCEY: What's up?
THE KID: The Shooter's not well. He didn't want to spoil the game, but he ought to be resting. He ought to be in the hospital.
LANCEY: Well, we got Lady Fingers. Or we can deal ourselves.
SHOOTER: I'm okay. What The Kid's talking about is nothing. It's just not It is to me. You want to kill yourself, do it on your own time.
THE KID: It is to me. You want to kill yourself, do it on your own time.
LANCEY: I got to go along with that, Shooter. Lady Fingers! You ready?
LADY FINGERS: Like Eddie the Dude said on his deathbed, I'm as ready as I'll ever
LANCEY: I can't persuade myself you have the
LANCEY: Now I can.
THE KID: Pair of eights bets an even thousand
YELLER: Ten bucks and my notoriously fallible instinct tells me the boy is bluffing this time.
HOBAN: Mark it.
LANCEY: ( turning his cards ) I'm not that curious.
HOBAN: ( excitement in his voice ) The Kid is pushing it and making it
SHOOTER: ( in a low voice ) He's getting to him.
LANCEY: Two hundred.
THE KID: And up five.
LANCEY: CLOSE - CHRISTIAN Amid the growing excitement and tension she is a complete ( TIME LAPSE ) THE POKER TABLE The Kid shows two jacks and two odd cards; Lancey a pair of aces and two odd cards. Lancey puts about eight hundred dollars into the pot.
LANCEY: Betting the jack isn't there, Kid.
SHOOTER: We're in I think he's got him.
LADY FINGERS: A jack and a ten. Jack bets.
LANCEY: Jack is willing to wager two hundred
THE KID: And up five hundred.
LANCEY: Call your five hundred and five hundred more.
THE KID: ( after a brief hesitation ) Fifty to one hundred says Lancey paired his jacks.
HOBAN: Fifty to one hundred says Lancey paired his jacks.
YELLER: Mark it.
LADY FINGERS: Pair of tens. Jack, ten of hearts.
THE KID: Five hundred.
LANCEY: Your five hundred and up one
HOBAN: Fifty to seventy-five he's got the jacks wired.
YELLER: Mark it Could be a high heart. Queen's the best, but that old man can be cocky with an ace or a deuce. 'Specially having one of The Kid's One thousand to the tens.
LADY FINGERS: One thousand to the tens.
THE KID: LADY FINGERS ( dealing )
LADY FINGERS: ( dealing ) A third ten, and a nine of hearts to the ten, jack.
HOBAN: He'll run. He's beat on the board anyway you look at it. Even if he has the jacks it is better than eight to one against improving.
YELLER: He won't run and I don't think he's got the jacks. I think he's going for the flush.
THE KID: ( after a moment ) Two thousand, five hundred dollars.
LADY FINGERS: ( finally ) Two thousand, five hundred dollars to the three hearts.
LANCEY: ( finally, casually ) Reasonable bet. Two thousand five ( he counts out the money to Lady Fingers ) Deal them.
SHOOTER: ( knowing this is it ) He's going for it and The Kid's got him. He's going all the way.
LADY FINGERS: ( dealing ) A queen of diamonds to the three ( a note of excitement in her voice ) And an eight of hearts to the possible flush. Possible straight flush. Three tens bet.
HOBAN: If The Kid bets into the flush he's filled up with a queen in the hole.
YELLER: If The Man has a flush or a straight, he goes under. But not with both.
THE KID: Bet what's in front of me. Make it fifty-four hundred bucks.
THE WATCHERS: FEATURING LANCEY He takes his time before he responds.
FEATURING LANCEY: He takes his time before he responds.
LANCEY: Fifty-four hundred bucks is a nice piece of money. I see the bet and raise sixty-seven
BILL: Kid has him, doesn't he?
KID: ( after a long moment ) I'm taking my half hour to raise my I declare a thirty-minute break. Leave your cards and money on the table. The game will start again at five forty-five.
LADY FINGERS: I declare a thirty-minute break. Leave your cards and money on the table. The game will start again at five forty-five.
LANCEY: I'll take your marker, Kid.
KID: I can raise it.
LANCEY: I know you can.
KID: Long as you know. Straight flush to the jack That's $6700 you owe me, Kid.
LANCEY: ( turns up a heart seven ) Straight flush to the jack That's $6700 you owe me, Kid.
LANCEY: New deck.
LADY FINGERS: Are you playing, Kid? You got a half an hour to raise your stake.
KID: No I'm through.
LADY FINGERS: ( formally ) Gentlemen, this game is over.
LANCEY: You're one hell of a poker player, Kid. That was a rough hand.
KID: What's the tab for the whole show? You had to do it, didn't you you had to go for it your own way. Well, sonny, I hope you learned something. I know we sure as hell Where's Christian?
LANCEY: What's the tab for the whole show? You had to do it, didn't you you had to go for it your own way. Well, sonny, I hope you learned something. I know we sure as hell Where's Christian?
CLOSER ANGLE: You had to do it, didn't you you had to go for it your own way. Well, sonny, I hope you learned something. I know we sure as hell Where's Christian?
MELBA: You had to do it, didn't you you had to go for it your own way. Well, sonny, I hope you learned something. I know we sure as hell Where's Christian?
KID: Where's Christian?
MELBA: She's gone. She's got too much sense to stick with a two bit loser.
SHOOTER: Shut up. Sorry, Kid.
KID: ( then: ) I should have known he had it, Shooter Man. I walked into it.
SHOOTER: ( trying to grin as Schlaegel and Felix move up ) Well, Kid, it's like I said you just wasn't ready.
BILL: ( to The Shooter ) Are you ready, Shooter Man? We're having a meeting and I suggest you join us.
MELBA: Why me I'm not part of this.
SHOOTER: ( jerking her forward ) Oh, yes you are you and your big mouth you're part of it all right.
SCHLAEGEL: He's right, my dear. Now run along with Felix. We're going to have a long talk about that big mouth of
DIFFERENT ANGLE: Schlaegel turns to The Kid.
SCHLAEGEL: I was wrong. I figured you for brains. But you're a loser, Kid. You had a chance to play with grownups and you They weren't playing your game. They were playing mine. Think about that while you find a place to hide. But hide good, Kid because I got a message for you and I'm going to see it delivered.
THE KID: Any time.
NEW ANGLE: Lancey and Lady Fingers join The Kid.
LADY FINGERS: Never thought I'd see the day. You raising tens on a lousy three-flush.
LANCEY: Gets down to what it's all about, doesn't it? Making the wrong play at the right time.
THE KID: ( sharply ) That's what it's all about? ( then, as Lancey looks at him and doesn't answer ) You were crazy odds are three hundred to one against.
LANCEY: ( after a moment ) I don't play a percentage game. I play stud poker my way. And I got the money and you got the questions. Figure that out. ( then, not unkindly ) You're good. But as long as I'm around, you're second best, Kid. and you might as well learn to live with it.
LANCEY: Look me up if you're in Miami after Christmas. Stillson Hotel.
SCENE: Lancey stops surrounded by a crowd of admirers offering their congratulations. The Kid watches for a moment then takes a long drink out of the bottle and eases through the crowd and out the door.
CLOSER ANGLE: The men are four of the original seven players he hustled in the opening scene. NOTE: During the progression of the game first one, then two, then all four men will be included among the observers. Always in the background, never positively identified. Their presence should be felt if not recognized.
DANNY: So it ain't Eric Stone, from the foundry. It's the Cincinnati Kid King of the stud poker players.
THE KID: No not the King not much of anything right now.
DANNY: ( moving towards him ) We'll start with giving you back what you gave me.
NEW ANGLE: as Christian gets out of a taxi.
DANNY: ( as she moves toward them ) Tell her good-bye, sport. You ain't going any place.
THE KID: I know that.
CHRISTIAN: Are you all right?
CLOSER ANGLE: THE KID ( then )
THE KID: I'm fine. Weren't you going to say good-bye?
CHRISTIAN: I said good-bye.
THE KID: Yeah, I guess you did. You don't know if I won or lost do No it doesn't really matter. I love you, Kid and it's not Yeah, I know.
CHRISTIAN: No it doesn't really matter. I love you, Kid and it's not Yeah, I know.
THE KID: Yeah, I know.
TAXI DRIVER: ( calling ) Listen, Lady, it's coming on the morning rush. I got to have one fare after another or I'm behind for the
DIFFERENT ANGLE: Danny and the others move up around him. The Kid ignores them. After a moment Danny swings from behind and knocks him to the pavement. He lies there stunned for a moment. They look down at him. Then he comes up. He flattens two in the process of being badly beaten. They leave him.
DIFFERENT ANGLES: as the city awakens. Finally, he stirs, stands and walks
FADE OUT: THE END
THE END: Writers : Ring Lardner Jr Terry Southern Richard Jessup
