CINEMA PARADISO: Giuseppe Tornatore
MARIA: .Salvatore, that's right, Salvatore. Di Vita Salvatore .But, miss, what do you mean you don't know him?!.I.Yes. .That's right, good for you! Oh!.yes.And I'm his mother. I'm calling from Sicily. Been trying all day.Ah, he's not there.But would you be so kind as to give me.?.Yes. .Six, five, six, two, two, oh, six.Thanks ever so much.Goodbye. Goodbye.
LIA: Look, Ma.It's useless calling him. He'll be terribly busy, God knows where he is. Besides he might not even remember. Do as I say, forget it.He hasn't been here for thirty years. You know how he is.
MARIA: He'll remember! He'll remember! .I'm positive. I know him better than you do. If he were to find out we hadn't told him, he'd be angry. I know. .Hello? Good morning. Could I please speak to Mr. Salvatore Di Vita. I'm his mother.
BOY: Hey! What the fuck you looking at!?
CLARA: Salvatore.But what time is it?
SALVATORE: It's late, Clara. Sorry, but I wasn't able to let you know I wouldn't be Go to sleep now. Sleep.
CLARA: Your mother phoned. She took me for somebody else.
SALVATORE: ( Surprised ) And what'd you tell her?
CLARA: I played dumb, so as not to disappoint her. We had a nice little talk. She says you never go see her, and when she wants to see you she has to come to Rome.Is it true?
SALVATORE: She phoned just to say that?
CLARA: She said a certain Alfredo had died. And the funeral's taking place tomorrow afternoon. Who is it? A relative of yours?
SALVATORE: No. Sleep. Go to sleep.
PRIEST: Pss! Pssst!
PRIEST: But how can I make you understand? Without the bell I just can't go on! Always half asleep, you are! What do you do at night anyway? Eat instead of sleep?
SALVATORE: Father, at my house we don't even eat at noon. That's why I'm always sleepy. That's what the vet says.
PRIEST: All right, Toto, get moving, I've got things to do. Say hello to your Can I.
SALVATORE: Can I.
PRIEST: ( Interrupting him ) And don't ask if you can come. Because you can't!! Shoo, shoo, off with you!!
PRIEST: OK, Alfredo, you can start!!
ALFREDO: ( Harshly, shouting ) You must not come here! How many times do I have to tell you? ( And he slows down the reels with his hand. The slips of paper are about to arrive. Here's the first. ) If the film catches fire, runt that you are, you'd go up in a burst of flame.whoosh! And turn into a piece of.
SALVATORE: ( Overlapping him ) .and turn into a piece of He's used to his terrorisms, pays no more attention. Not even his grim look scares him. Anyway, ALFREDO catches the joke, starts to give him a slap, but instead reaches over and picks up a pair of scissors.
ALFREDO: ( Angrily ) Christ, that's a sassy little tongue you've got! Watch out, or someday I'll snip it off.
SALVATORE: Can I have it?
ALFREDO: No!!! Are you deaf or something? I've got to put this back in when we wind up the film again! You're a real pain in the neck!
SALVATORE: Then why didn't you put these back when you wound up the films again?
ALFREDO: 'Cause sometimes you can't find the right place any more and so.well, actually.they stay here. Besides, there are more kisses than you can count.
SALVATORE: ( Excited ) So I can have these? ( ALFREDO explodes, flies off the handle. He grabs SALVATORE by the shoulders and shakes him. )
ALFREDO: Look, Toto! Before I kick your ass all the way to China and back, let's make a deal. These strips here are yours, I give them to you. However! One you're not to stick your nose in here any more. Two I'll keep them for you, because you can't take them home for God forbid and save our souls, if they catch fire, all hell will break loose! OK? Oh!!! And now He takes him and turns him towards the stairs. For him the matter is closed. He returns to the film-winder. SALVATORE sneaks back and while ALFREDO's attention is elsewhere, snatches up a handful of movie frames scattered on the counter, stuffs them into his pocket and.
SALVATORE: What sort of deal is this? The strips are mine! So why can't I come see And he stares at ALFREDO with a sly, saucy look. ALFREDO clutches his hand, darts forth like an arrow and is about to give him a kick in the ass. He Get out!! And don't show your face here again!
ALFREDO: Get out!! And don't show your face here again!
SALVATORE: Bang! Bang! Bang! Shoot first, think later! This is no job for weaklings! Treacherous dog!
SALVATORE: Hey there, you lousy bastard, take your hands off that gold, You black- hearted pig, stay away from me, or I'll smash your face in! Ma, if the war's over, how come Daddy's never come back?
MARIA: He'll be back, he'll be back. You'll see. One of these But there is not much conviction written on her face. She looks back down at her sewing. SALVATORE goes on looking at the I don't remember him any more—Ma, where's Russia?
SALVATORE: I don't remember him any more—Ma, where's Russia?
MARIA: It takes years to get there. And years to come back.Now go to bed, Toto, it's late.
MASINO'S FATHER: You can fool your mother but not me! Get yourself a damn diploma and become a policeman. You good-for- I don't want to go to school'
MASINO: I don't want to go to school'
TEACHER: Well then?! Five times five COLA stops to think a moment, then.
COLA: The TEACHER grabs him by the purple ear and bashes his head against the numbers on the blackboard. A large thud echoes through the room, followed by a roar of laughter. The TEACHER slams her rod on the desk.
TEACHER: ( Then to COLA ) The five times table. Dunce! One times five, five!! ( The class repeats with the TEACHER, in a sing- song chorus: )
TEACHER: Five times five?
COLA: ( Timidly ) Another blow of the head on the blackboard. Hubbub. Slapping of the rod on the desk. SALVATORE secretly shows COLA the picture of a Christmas tree on one page of the book, and mouths the word 'twenty-five'. COLA smiles, he has finally caught on.
TEACHER: I'm asking you for the last time, blockhead! Five times five equals.?
COLA: SALVATORE clutches his head in anger, watches the TEACHER flogging COLA on the back with the rod. COLA screams at every blow, and at every blow the laughter in the class grows louder. SALVATORE stares at the rod moving up and down rhythmically. But he is not thinking of the pain his schoolmate is feeling, but is drawn, rather, by that strange regular beat, finds it similar to another regular beat, that of.
ALFREDO: ( Sternly ) What are you doing here?
SALVATORE: I bought a ticket. I've come to see the film.
USHER: ( Yelling ) Go sit downstairs! You good-for- nothing sponger! ! ( To the audience ) Worse than rabbits they are!
AUDIENCE: ( At once ) Ssssssh!!! Ssssssh! Silence!
USHER: It's a double-feature today.
AUDIENCE: ( Hooting and whistling ) For Christ's sake! Cut it, The CHILDREN in the front rows also yell, but SALVATORE goes on being alert. He turns and looks up at the holes of the projection booth, as if it were an impregnable fortress. He watches the crazy dancing of light in the glowing stream that opens towards him in a cone. And besides, that lion's head, mysterious, almost gruesome, emphasizes the enigmatic secret of the movies. In his dreamy eyes, that lifeless lion seems to wake up with a ferocious roar.
CHILDREN: Grrrr! Grrrrr!
AUDIENCE: SSSSSH' Drop dead! Silence! Hey, kids, we're here to see the film!
AUDIENCE: ( Disappointed ) Ahhh! What a shame! I've been going to the movies for twenty years and I never saw a kiss!
AUDIENCE: And when will we see one?
MARIA: I've been looking for you all day. Did you buy the milk?
SALVATORE: Then where's the money?
MARIA: Then where's the money?
SALVATORE: Somebody stole it.
MARIA: What'd you do with the money? Go to the movies?
ALFREDO: Signora Maria, don't do that. He's just a kid. And why are you telling fibs? We let him in free. He must have lost the money inside the movie How much did you have?
SALVATORE: Fifty lire.
ALFREDO: ( To the USHER ) What you find tonight on the floor between the seats? ( The USHER reaches into- his pockets, pulls out some odds and ends. )
USHER: A comb, two heel-savers, a box of
ALFREDO: .and fifty lire!
MARIA: Thanks, Uncle Alfredo. Thanks. Good- She walks away, dragging SALVATORE by the hand. ALFREDO gives him a wink. SALVATORE smiles and winks back, but he's not very good at it; he can't manage to shut only one eye. Everybody leaves and the square empties, as the VILLAGE IDIOT comes up to the group of labourers, beside DON VINCENZO, motioning them all to get moving.
IDIOT: It's midnight. I've got to shut down the square! Go away. The square's mine! The square's 13 CEMETERY ROAD AND VILLAGE ROAD. EXT. DAY SALVATORE, dressed as an altar boy, walks alongside the PRIEST who is wearing the ceremonial vestments. They are tired, have walked a long way. Behind them a donkey pulls a wagon containing a little white coffin and a bunch of flowers. Behind that a little procession the parents and relatives of the dead child. The road is very wide, covered with white earth. The spring sun is dazzling. The funeral procession kicks up a cloud of dust that makes everything blurred and hazy, like a dream, rimmed around the horizon by the blue line of the sea. The procession now turns into the large gate of the cemetery. ALFREDO, working in the fields, takes his hat off and watches the coffin as it passes by.
ALFREDO: Good morning, father. It's hard on the feet, huh?
PRIEST: ( Breathless ) Yeah!.Getting there's downhill and all the saints help you. But coming back! The saints stand there watching you, that's all! God's will be done.
SALVATORE: Ouch! Ouch! My foot! I can't walk!
SALVATORE: Alfredo, did you know my father?
ALFREDO: Of course I knew your father. He was tall, thin, pleasant, and had a moustache like mine. Always smiling. He looked like Clark Gable.
SALVATORE: Alfredo, now that I'm older, I'm not saying I can start coming to the projection booth, to the movie house.But.maybe, why don't we become friends?
ALFREDO: 'I choose my friends for their looks, and my enemies for their ( Laughs ) You're too smart to be my friend. Besides, as I always tell my kids, be careful to pick the right friends!
SALVATORE: ( Surprised ) But you don't have any kids!!!
ALFREDO: ( Spluttering ) All right, all right! When I've got kids that's what I'm telling them! ( The outlying houses of Giancaldo finally heave into sight. )
MARIA: Stop crying.The fire is out.I'm here.That'll do, that'll do. Miserable boy! You're the ruin of me! Your sister would have been burnt alive if I hadn't been there! And all your fault!
MARIA: But aren't you ashamed of yourself, Uncle Alfredo, playing with a little boy at your age?!
ALFREDO: ( Cowed ) But.what's it got to do with And who gave him all those films? Promise you won't give him any more of this trash! Don't let him set foot any more in the movie house. The boy's crazy! Crazy! All he talks about is movies and Alfredo' Alfredo and movies!!
MARIA: And who gave him all those films? Promise you won't give him any more of this trash! Don't let him set foot any more in the movie house. The boy's crazy! Crazy! All he talks about is movies and Alfredo' Alfredo and movies!!
ALFREDO: I give you my word, Donna Maria.
MARIA: God's got to grant me one wish! Send your father back home! And he'll see you get what's coming to you!
SALVATORE: Daddy's not coming back.He's dead.
MARIA: It's not true! No! It's not true!!! I'll show you he's coming back!
BLACKSMITH: Ah! I'll wring all your necks!! Or my good name means nothing! !! Lousy SALVATORE doesn't laugh. He is sad. He turns and looks up at the projection booth. He sees ALFREDO through the lion's mouth. ALFREDO also catches sight of him. SALVATORE gives him a timid wave of the hand, as if asking if he can come up a moment. The look on ALFREDO'S face is unmistakable, irrevocable: N0! SALVATORE'S not surprised; after what happened it won't be easy to win him over. Yet there must be some way. But what is it? As usual, SALVATORE is smart as the devil when he's out to get something. Through the emergency exit he sees a woman pass by with a packet in her hand. It is ALFREDO's WIFE, and the packet is his supper. SALVATORE leaps to his feet and runs out to her.
SALVATORE: Signora Anna!
SALVATORE: ( On the defensive ) Your wife told me to bring you this.
ALFREDO: ( Sternly ) Give it to me!.
SALVATORE: I told my mother you weren't the one who gave me the films. That it wasn't your fault. But I thought you said the film could catch fire just to scare me. Now that I know, I won't steal any more from you. That's all I wanted to say. I'm going.
ALFREDO: Toto, come here.
ALFREDO: Now listen to what I've got to say. I took up this profession when I was ten years old. In those days there weren't these modern machines. The films were silent. The projectors were run by hand, like this, with a crank. And you wound the crank all day long. It was really rough going! If you got tired and slowed down' boom! Everything would go up in Then why don't you want to teach it to me too? Now that there's no more cranking, and it's easier?
SALVATORE: Then why don't you want to teach it to me too? Now that there's no more cranking, and it's easier?
ALFREDO: ( Firmly ) Because I don't want to, Toto! This is not a job for you. It's like being a slave. You're always alone. You see the same film over and over again, because you have nothing else to do. And you start talking to Greta Garbo and Tyrone Power like a nut! You work on holidays, on Christmas, on Easter. Only on Good Friday are you free. But if they hadn't put Jesus Christ on a cross.You'd work Good Fridays too!
SALVATORE: Then why don't you change jobs?
ALFREDO: Because I'm an idiot. How many other guys in town know how to be a projectionist? None! Only a jerk like me could do it. Besides I wasn't lucky. When I was a kid there was the war! When I grew up, another war! Now it's all different. Times have changed. And you want to be a dope like me? Huh? Answer me!
SALVATORE: Good for you, Toto. Good for you. I'm only saying this for your own Cooped up in here you die of heat in the summer and of cold in the winter. You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and earn practically nothing.
ALFREDO: Good for you, Toto. Good for you. I'm only saying this for your own Cooped up in here you die of heat in the summer and of cold in the winter. You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and earn practically nothing.
SALVATORE: ( In a loud voice ) But don't you like anything about what you do? ( SALVATORE gazes at the photos on the wall: Keaton, Garbo, Snow White. ALFREDO smiles to himself. Sure, there's something about that damn job he likes: )
ALFREDO: With time.you get used to it. Besides, when you hear from up here that there's a full house and that people are laughing, having fun. Then you're happy too. So I've been wasting my breath? You pretend to agree with me, but as soon as my back is turned, you do what you want! Get out of here! I don't want to lay eyes on you again! This is the last straw! Your mother's right, you're crazy!! But how'd he do it? The little bastard! By watching, he's learned! It's incredible! I'm letting the box office know you're not to set foot even into the theatre! There are no more tickets for you! And I'm also talking to Father Adelfio! You won't be an altar boy any more either!!! You little runt!
SALVATORE: Alfredo, go fuck yourself!!!
CROWD: Goal!! Holy Mother of God!!!
MAN: Ciccio Spaccafico's won the
SPECTATOR'S VOICE: The Neapolitan's won the lottery!!! Let's go see, kids!!! Northerners are always lucky!
PRINCIPAL: Excuse me, professor. Here are the men taking the exam for the elementary school certificate. Come in, please.
ALFREDO: YOU jerk. Tell me how to solve this fucking problem!
TEACHER: Ssssh! Silence back there!!
ALFREDO: Pay attention. This is where it can easily catch fire. If it happens, the first thing you've got to do is break it off, here and here, so the whole reel doesn't go up in fames.
ALFREDO: You understand which side the gelatin's on?
SALVATORE: It tastes wonderful!
AUDIENCE: Fraaaame!! Wake up, Alfredo!
ALFREDO: These are the shipping invoices for the film. They are always to be kept. You see?
SALVATORE: OK, Alfredo.
AUDIENCE: Holy Mother! What a face! So ugly!
ALFREDO: Now you can run it by yourself.
MASINO: ( In a whisper ) Christ, what a piece of ass!!!
TEACHER: Di Francesco, aren't you saying goodbye to your schoolmate? But why?
DI FRANCESCO: My father says he's a Communist.
SALVATORE: Will they really find work in Who knows?.It's like an adventure. Hope springs eternal.
ALFREDO: Who knows?.It's like an adventure. Hope springs eternal.
SALVATORE: Peppinoooo! Come back sooon!! Good thing Germany's closer than ALFREDO rubs his hand through his hair.
COMMENTATOR: The Defense Minister has announced a new listof names of Italian soldiers, so far considered missing and now confirmed as dead. Families concerned will be notified directly by military SALVATORE pays careful attention, sees the black-and-white shots of the last war. The Russian campaign. The troops in the snow. Now in detail a heap of personal objects found on the corpses. Documents, clothing, glasses, photographs. One quick detail catches SALVATORE's eye among those photographs, for one instant he sees one he thinks he recognizes. He quickly sticks a slip of paper into the take-up reel, as when marking the kisses to be cut.
OFFICIAL: .Unfortunately we don't know what war cemetery he's buried in.This is the form for the pension. If you'd like to sign it.
PRIEST: Don't shove! There's no room! For heaven's sake! I can't give another showing, it's late!
CROWD: Open up!!! Father Adelfio!!
AUDIENCE: Ssssh! Sssssh! Be quiet out there!! What the hell!
SALVATORE: Why can't we show the same film It's got to be sent to another town. And if we don't the owner of that movie house gets pissed off.
ALFREDO: It's got to be sent to another town. And if we don't the owner of that movie house gets pissed off.
SALVATORE: Too bad!
CARABINIERES: ( Exasperated ) Stop! Go home, all of you! Otherwise somebody's going to end up in jail!' That's enough!
ALFREDO: ( Dramatically ) 'Joe! A mob doesn't think, doesn't know what it's doing.' ( SALVATORE gives him a curious, inquisitive look. ALFREDO smiles. ) Spencer Tracy said it in Fury. ( Mischievously ) What'd you say if we let these poor devils see the film, Toto? ( SALVATORE stares at him in amazement, all excited. )
SALVATORE: Wonderful! But how can it be done?
ALFREDO: You don't believe my words, but you'll have to believe your own eyes!.And now get your ass off that damn stool, boy!
ALFREDO: ( Mysteriously ) Go to the window, boy, and have a SALVATORE goes over to the window. Looks out. The reflected beam of light ends up on the white row of houses facing the square. It's like another screen. Except the images are backwards, like when you look in a mirror. And here and there are the windows of the houses.For SALVATORE, it's a wonderful spectacle, like a dream, ravishing.
SALVATORE: Alfredo, it's beautiful.
CROWD: Oh, praise the Lord!! It's true! Look! The movie!! There's Toto!! Hurry! Hurry!.THANKS, ALFRED0000!!
SALVATORE: Good for you, Alfredo!
CROWD: Shut the window!! Shut the window! Go to bed!!
ALFREDO: What do you say, should we make them Sure, sure!
SALVATORE: ( Smiling ) Sure, sure!
CROWD: Aaaaaaaa! At last!
ALFREDO: ( Looking at SALVATORE ) Do you want to go down there? ( SALVATORE gives a contented nod. ) Go on.
CROWD: Fuck off!! The square belongs to
VILLAGE IDIOT: No!!! The square's mine!!! Come on, kids, no joking around here!!! The crowd roars with laughter. SALVATORE laughs too, as if carried away by it all. And over the general merriment looms the shadow of ALFREDO, standing in the window of the projection booth. All at once, on the house-front screen, the image of Toto slows down for an instant, a white blister appears and spreads until it fills the whole screen. The crowd gives a start of bewilderment and fear. SALVATORE jerks his head around to look at the booth.
CROWD: Heeeelp! Run for your lives!!!
SALVATORE: Alfredo! Heeeelp! Help!!!
VOICES: What a pity! Poor Alfredo! What a terrible thing!! Cheer up, Father, is there something we can do?'
VILLAGE IDIOT: ( Laughing ) Burnt up.Burnt up.
PRIEST: What'll we do now! The town will have to get along without movies! Who's got the money to rebuild it?
GUESTS: Cheers' Congratulations, Don Ciccio!
AUDIENCE: To the Cinema Paradiso!
PRIEST: How'd you solve his being under age?
SPACCAFICO: I took out a license as projectionist, thanks to friends down at the guild offices. But I don't know a thing about it. Officially, I do the job. .but Toto earns the money.
PRIEST: ( To SALVATORE ) Always be careful, my boy. Don't ever go to sleep. Be sure another accident doesn't happen. Do everything poor Alfredo taught you. And may God bless SALVATORE nods his head seriously, assuming a responsible expression. His mother kisses the PRIEST's hand.
MARIA: Thanks, Father. Thanks.
SPACCAFICO: And now enough of this gloomy atmosphere. Life goes on! I want to see you happy and smiling!
AUDIENCE: Ooooooh! They're kissing!! Look at that!! Christ, that's news!!
ANNA'S VOICE: SALVATORE turns and at the top of the stairs sees SIGNORA ANNA and behind her, ALFREDO, her husband. He is wearing a pair of dark glasses and walks with the kelp of a cane. He has lost his sight, but not his spirit. He smiles:
ALFREDO: Any room for me in this Cinema
SALVATORE: Come in, Alfredo.
ANNA: ( to SALVATORE ) Toto, will you bring him home when you close down?
SALVATORE: Yes. Signora Anna. I'm glad you came.
ALFREDO: How's school?
SALVATORE: OK. OK. But now that I've got a job, I'11 probably stop going.
ALFREDO: Don't do that.Sooner or later you'll be left empty-handed.
SALVATORE: Why? What do you mean?
ALFREDO: Toto, this isn't for you. For the moment, the Cinema Paradiso needs you, and you need the Cinema Paradiso. But it won't last.Some day you'll have other things to do, more important things. That's right, more important. I know it. Now that I've lost my sight I see I see everything I didn't see And it's all thanks to you, who saved my life. And I'll never forget it. And don't put on that look. I haven't gone off my head yet. You want proof?
SALVATORE: ( Smiling ) Yes. I want proof.
ALFREDO: For example, at this moment the film's out of focus. Go see.
ALFREDO: ( Smiling ) It's hard to explain, Toto.
SPACCAFICO: Only two days? Are you joking?!. What do I care if all the copies are reserved?.Catene for only two days in a place like this! Why, people will eat me alive!. .I know, I know. But even if I start showing at eight in the morning it wouldn't be enough! This is a big town now and you people at the Titanus know it perfectly well! I'm your sole agent and if I get pissed off I'll write straight to Lombardo, in Rome!! I'll give you guys a good run-around!! If I get my dander up, I can let fly, if my name's Spaccafico!!
SALVATORE: Don Ciccio, I've got an idea.You remember that old abandoned movie house where they're supposed to build those low-rent houses?
SPACCAFICO: So what's that got to do with it?
SALVATORE: The projector's all rusty, but I could fix it in two or three days. Give the place a good cleaning, put in some seats and bring in a projectionist and we'll show Catene in two houses.
SPACCAFICO: ( Shrieking ) What the fuck you talking about? You getting into the act too, Toto? Titanus has trouble giving me even one copy and I have to say thanks! If I ask for two, the least they'll do is cut off my head and play ball with A shrewd look glitters in SALVATORE s eyes. He smiles.
SALVATORE: Who says we need two copies?
USHER: ( Exasperate] ) That's enough now! You've seen it ten times! I need the seats! I wish you'd all get the galloping runs!
CARABINIERES: Easy! Easy! Through the emergency exits, quick! Stop the jabbering!!
SALVATORE: Now get running and bring me the first reel. Meanwhile I'll start showing the news!
BOCCIA: OK, Toto!
SPACCAFICO: Quick! Give it to me! Here's the first part. Get moving!
SPACCAFICO: Here you are! Quick, quick!! People are waiting!
AUDIENCE: Hey, when's it starting!! We've got ploughing to do in the morning!! Toto, get a move on!! Heeey!!
CARABINIERE: What are we going to do, Toto? The whole place here is up in arms. They've been waiting more than a half What can I do?
SALVATORE: What can I do?
SPACCAFICO: Where's the fucking bastard got to?
SPECTATOR: Let's get one thing straight, Don Ciccio! I'm waiting ten minutes more, and if you haven't started. you're giving me my money back!!
AUDIENCE: ( In chorus ) Well said! Well said! We want our money back!!
SPACCAFICO: Easy! Easy! What about my showing you the first part again? Huh?
AUDIENCE: No! First part, my foot! We want to see how the story ends!!
PASQUALE: I've seen the whole works! You want me to tell you how it ends?
AUDIENCE: Nooo! No! Shut up, you jerk!!
SALVATORE: Boccia! Boccia!
SALVATORE: ( Alarmed ) Boccia, what's wrong? ( He runs over to help his friend. Behind the bush he discovers BOCCIA humped up between the legs of TERESA, a prostitute. He moves with all the fury of his young years. SALVATORE has never seen people making love before and is speechless. ) Damn you, what are you doing?
BOCCIA: ( Shouting ) Oh, Christ, it's so good!!! ( And he goes on ramming it home. )
TERESA: Hey, cut it out! Go away. Shoo!
SALVATORE: What'd I tell you? It doesn't catch Progress! It always arrives too late!
ALFREDO: Progress! It always arrives too late!
TERESA'S VOICE: ( Off-screen ) Come on.That's right.relax. ( Laughing ) .Don't be scared.
SALVATORE'S VOICE: ( Off-screen ) Is it true that if I bleed I've got to squeeze lemon juice on it?
TERESA: .There you are! That's right, that's right! Keep going. Ah!!! There, now you're a real man! A man! ? A real calf!
SALVATORE: You know that one there?
BOCCIA: She's new. Not bad though. Nice-
SECOND STUDENT: Her father s the new bank director. Loaded, luxury and easy living!
FIRST STUDENT: People who jerk off with a shirt so they won't get their hands dirty.
SALVATORE: Look, you dropped this.
ELENA: Oh, thanks. I hadn't noticed.
SALVATORE: My name's Salvatore.And yours?
ELENA: ( Smiling ) Elena. My name's Elena.
SALVATORE: I.I.The other time at the BOCCIA suddenly grabs him by the collar and yanks him away. ELENA is frightened, puts her hand over her eyes so as not to see.
ALFREDO: Chaplin's Modern Times! Right, Toto?
SALVATORE: That's right, Modern Times.
ALFREDO: I've shown it so many times I know it by heart. The first time I showed it, in 1940, was the Sunday my first wife died. They kept it hidden from me all day so they wouldn't have to close down the movie house. I only found out that night, after the last show. Those are things you never So, Toto, how are these home movies
SALVATORE: ( The shots of the slaughter-house have appeared. )
ALFREDO: ( Whispering ) What is it, what is it? What's the It's people in the slaughter-house killing a calf. There's blood all over the floor, like a lake. And through this lake another calf passes by on its way to die.
SALVATORE: It's people in the slaughter-house killing a calf. There's blood all over the floor, like a lake. And through this lake another calf passes by on its way to die.
ALFREDO: Now what can you see?
SALVATORE: Nothing, there's nothing. It's all out of focus.
ALFREDO: ( Smiling ) Is there a woman?.Tell me the ( SALVATORE is shamed, uncertain, doesn't know whet to say. A tender look filters through ALFREDO's dark glasses. He has obviously caught on and whispers: ) There is a woman.
SALVATORE: Yes, it's a girl I saw at the What's she like? What's she like?.
ALFREDO: What's she like? What's she like?.
SALVATORE: She's nice. My age.Slender, with long hair, brunette. She had big blue eyes, a simple expression and a little beauty mark on her lip, but really tiny. You can only see it close-up. And when she smiles.She makes you feel.
ALFREDO: Eh! Love.what a mystery! I understand you, Toto.The ones with blue eyes are the most beautiful. Whatever you do, you can't make friends with Eh, there's nothing to be done about it! The heavier a man is, the deeper his footprints. And if he's in love, he suffers, because he knows he's up a one-way street. Because love is a meaningless thing when a man gets it into his head to do what he wants.
SALVATORE: What you say is wonderful! But sad.
ALFREDO: ( Smiling ) They're not my words. John Wayne said it in Shepherd of the Hills.
SALVATORE: Stinking two-timer!!
SALVATORE: Hi, Elena!
ELENA: Hi. Why are you running?
SALVATORE: No particular reason. Nice day, huh?
ELENA: Yes, nice day. .I've got to go now. Bye-bye.
SALVATORE: Bye-bye, Elena. .What an idiot! What an idiot! 'Nice day'! Christ!!
SALVATORE: You probably don't believe me, but I'm going to become the leading man in your life. Sure, I don't look like Marlon Brando, but look at me, really look at me. Am I really so ugly? So should I try once more? Maybe It'll succeed. What do you ELENA seems to be saying, Yes. As SALVATORE kisses ELENA, her image disappears. He is left with his face against the wall in the white light from the 59:PHONEB00TH AND ELENA'S HOUSE.INT.DAY SALVATORE is in a phone booth. The telephone will certainly help him feel less Hello, can I speak to Elena, please?
SALVATORE: Hello, can I speak to Elena, please?
WOMANS VOICE: ( SALVATORE recognizes ELENA's voice, changes his tone, turns sweeter, more personal. )
SALVATORE: Is that you, Elena?
WOMAN'S VOICE: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't recognize your voice. This is Salvatore, SALVATORE finally speaks, says everything all in one breath, without stopping, without hesitating, in order to leave no room for shyness.
SALVATORE: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't recognize your voice. This is Salvatore, SALVATORE finally speaks, says everything all in one breath, without stopping, without hesitating, in order to leave no room for shyness.
WOMAN'SVOICE: SALVATORE finally speaks, says everything all in one breath, without stopping, without hesitating, in order to leave no room for shyness.
SALVATORE: Listen, I know that every time we see each other I make a fool of myself, but I'm not like that, I swear. It's just that when I see you, I feel shy, the right words don't come to me, I don't have the courage to say that all I do is think about you. That's right, Elena, you're the last thing I think of when I go to sleep and the first when I wake up in the morning. And at night I always dream of you. I know, it's not good on the phone. But please, don't get me wrong. Because I love you very If you don't stop phoning her, I'm calling the police!
WOMAN'SVOICE: ( Interrupting him ) If you don't stop phoning her, I'm calling the police!
SALVATORE: ( Stunned ) But excuse me, who's speaking?
ELENA'S MOTHER: I'm Elena's mother, you filthy pig!
SALVATORE: I'm sorry, Signora, maybe there's a And don't call my daughter any more. SALVATORE has no choice but to hang up, disappointed, defeated. He's so mad he starts slapping himself.
WOMAN'S VOICE: And don't call my daughter any more. SALVATORE has no choice but to hang up, disappointed, defeated. He's so mad he starts slapping himself.
ALFREDO: I told you, the blue-eyed ones are the most difficult.
SALVATORE: But why? There must be some way to make her understand!
ALFREDO: Don't think about it, Toto. Don't even try. With feelings, there's nothing to understand.
SALVATORE: Stop it! I've had enough of your sermons! You act as if you created the world!
ALFREDO: Heeey! Totooooo! Don't get pissed off with me now! Come here! I don't know where the fuck I have to go. And the next time be careful how you talk. Not to take credit away from the Lord, but if I had created the world, in all modesty, certain things would have come out better. But unfortunately such was not the You see, it s like I say. You always have an answer for everything.
SALVATORE: ( Laughing ) You see, it s like I say. You always have an answer for everything.
ALFREDO: I want to make you happy, Toto! I'm going to tell you a story. Once upon a time a king gave a feast and there were all the most beautiful princesses of the realm. Basta, one of the guards, saw the king's daughter: she was the loveliest of all! And he immediately fell in love with her. But what could a poor soldier do compared with a king's daughter?!.One day he managed to meet her and told her he couldn't live without her. The princess was so struck by the depth of his feeling that she said to the soldier 'If you will wait a hundred days and a hundred nights beneath my balcony, then in the end I'll be yours.' Christ, the soldier ran off there and waited! One day, two days, ten, twenty.Every night she looked out of her window, but he never budged. Come rain, wind, snow, never budged! The birds shat on him and the bees ate him alive! After ninety nights he was gaunt and pale and tears streamed from his eyes but he couldn't hold them back. He didn't even have the strength to sleep any more. The princess kept watch.And on the ninety-ninth night, the soldier got up, picked up his chair and left!
SALVATORE: No! You mean right at the end?
ALFREDO: That's right, Toto, right at the end? And don't ask me what it means. If you figure it out, let me know.
SALVATORE: I'll be damned'
PRIEST: What is it, Alfredo? Right now, of all times!
ALFREDO: ( In a grave voice ) Father Adelfio, I have a very serious doubt that is torturing my soul. And you've got to help me, because I've lost all peace of mind.
ELENA: Father, I have sinned.
SALVATORE: ( In a low voice ) We'll talk about that later.
ELENA: ( Surprised ) ( Interrupting her ) Sssssh, Be quiet, pretend everything's normal. I'm Salvatore.
SALVATORE: ( Interrupting her ) Sssssh, Be quiet, pretend everything's normal. I'm Salvatore.
ELENA: What are you doing here?
PRIEST: But Alfredo, what you're saying is I know. But take the-miracle of the loaves and fishes, for example! I think about it a lot.How is it possible for.
ALFREDO: I know. But take the-miracle of the loaves and fishes, for example! I think about it a lot.How is it possible for.
ELENA: ( Annoyed ) There was a terrible rumpus at home. My mother told my father. And how could you have mistaken my voice?!
SALVATORE: Forgive me, Elena. It was stupid of me. But I had to talk to you.
SALVATORE: You're so beautiful, Elena.That's what I wanted to tell you. When I meet you, I can't put two words together because.you give me the shivers. I don't know what you do in these situations, what you're supposed to say. It's the first time. But I think I'm in love with you.
OLD WOMAN: Father, I have sinned.
SALVATORE: I absolve you in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Go in peace, my daughter. When you laugh, you're even more She pulls herself together again and puts on a serious, but tender look.
ELENA: Salvatore, it's awfully sweet of you. And even though I don't know you, I like you. But.I'm not in love with For SALVATORE, it's as if a knife had plunged straight into his heart. He sits there gazing into her eyes, at the beauty mark on her lip, without moving. Then through the crack sees ALFREDO and the PRIEST conversing nervously, God knows what they're saying. And he turns back to her.
SALVATORE: I don't care. I'll wait.
ELENA: For what?
SALVATORE: For you to fall in love with me too. Listen carefully. Every night, when I get off work, I'll come and wait beneath your window. Every night. When you change your mind, open your window. That's all. I'll He smiles at her. She is upset by those exaggerated words, but also intrigued.
PRIEST: ( Exhausted ) You understand now? You see it ( Hypocritically ) Oh yes, father. Now everything's And the next time don't go around saying such heresy. You survived the fire at the movie house. But no one can save you from the fire of Hell!
ALFREDO: ( Hypocritically ) Oh yes, father. Now everything's And the next time don't go around saying such heresy. You survived the fire at the movie house. But no one can save you from the fire of Hell!
PRIEST: And the next time don't go around saying such heresy. You survived the fire at the movie house. But no one can save you from the fire of Hell!
MARIA: ( Nervously ) But why hasn't Toto shown up? The movie house is closed at this hour!
ALFREDO: He had to do something for me.
RADIO VOICE: Six, five, four, three, two, one, zero! Happy New Year! Happy New Year!
ALFREDO: ( To Maria ) There's nothing to worry about. He's probably with his friends. ( To all ) Let's toast!
EVERYBODY: ( Toasting ) Here's to you! Here's to you! Happy New Year!
MARIA: For Toto too, here's to you!! Happy New Year! !
ELENA: Loud passionate music is heard on the monitor. SALVATORE turns and sees her as if in a dream. It is a sudden blow to the heart. The look on her face is wonderfully sweet, the look of somebody who knows she is madly loved and who now realizes at last that she is in love too. For SALVATORE it is an overwhelming, almost unbearable moment.A long passionate embrace that is never-ending. They are happy, cling to each other never to leave each other They spin around, end up against the wall where strips of film are hanging, the first-part endings and the trailers. Another intense look, their eyes locked.And it is their first kiss. A kiss at first timid, hesitant, almost clumsy, and then becomes resolute, poignant. Amidst the film strips dangling around and touching their young faces. Meanwhile the film has finished, the projector turns uselessly.Down below the screen is blank, the audience whistles.But SALVATORE hears nothing, neither the whistles nor the useless whirring of the reels in the projector. All he hears is her breathing, an he feels is the warmth of her 68 VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT/EXT. DAY The happiest, most vivid moments SALVATORE and ELENA spend A country outing. They eat a lavish salad using the flat branches of the prickly pear for plates.
ELENA: ( Ironically ) You have a great future as a driver. If they don't arrest you first!!
SALVATORE: That's nothing to do with it, it's the car that's still being run in.
ELENA: SO now how do we get home?
SALVATORE: Hello, Dr Mendola.Hem.
ALFREDO: ( In a low voice ) Toto, are you pulling my leg or something? How is it possible to see this television without film?
SALVATORE: Just so, Alfredo. There isn't any. And if you buy a television set, you can watch it at home, without any Could be.But I don't like this business. It smells fishy to me.
ALFREDO: ( Sceptically ) Could be.But I don't like this business. It smells fishy to me.
SPACCAFICO: ( In a low voice ) You see what a bright idea, Dr Mendola? But without the bank loan how could I have bought the machine? If we don't get organized around here, in this day and age, we'll meet the same end as the Punch and Judy ELENA is not very interested in the TV show. She sneaks a look at SALVATORE. From the looks on their faces, it is clear that things are not going very well. He gives her a nod, as if to say he wants to speak to her and that she should figure out some way! ELENA leans over to her MOTHER, whispers something into her 7I CINEMA PARADISO. TOILET. INT. EVENING ELENA's MOTHER stands waiting in front of the women's toilet, gazing at Mike Bongiorno emceeing the TV show in the distance.
SALVATORE: Could it be your father doesn't like the work I do.That my family's too poor.Is that it?
ELENA'S MOTHER: ( Off-screen ) All right! ! ( To Salvatore, in a whisper ) For the moment it's impossible to see each other.As soon as school is out, we're going to go stay with friends in Tuscany. We'll be there all summer.Maybe if you came up, we could meet in secret.
ELENA: All right! ! For the moment it's impossible to see each other.As soon as school is out, we're going to go stay with friends in Tuscany. We'll be there all summer.Maybe if you came up, we could meet in secret.
SALVATORE: ( Crestfallen ) But we're opening the outdoor movie theatre this summer. What will I do all this time without seeing you?!
ELENA: I'll write to you every day. Don't worry. I love you. The summer'll be over and I'll be back.
ELENA'S MOTHER: ( Off-screen ) ELENA climbs down, pulls the chain and walks off, leaving SALVATORE standing there on the toilet seat.
LITTLE BOYS: All seats are sold out! Free entrance and payment on the way out!! Sssssh!!
ELENA'S VOICE: ( Off-screen ) Salvatore, my darling, here the days never end. I find your name everywhere if I read a book, do a crossword puzzle, thumb through a newspaper.You're always before my eyes. Today I've got some rather bad news. At the end of October we're moving to the city where I'll attend the University. It'll be hard to see each other every day. But don't worry, whenever I can get away I'll always come running to you, to the Cinema Paradiso.
URCHIN: Fuck me! I've caught an octopus! An 75 VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT/EXT. DAY The August sun is blazing hot. People are forced to stay inside when the sirocco blows. The streets are empty. And there is a strange silence. Nothing can be heard except far in the distance, from somewhere in the country, the love song of some carter.SALVATORE hears it too, stretched out on the floor of his room, his eyes fixed on the ceiling where flies buzz around nervously. The MAILMAN comes down the street on his bicycle, rides up to SALVATORE and hands him a letter.Sitting in the shade of a white wall, SALVATORE reads the letter. Next to him, the dog that kept him company at night, beneath ELENA's window. He gazes up at him as if looking for news of her.
FADE: 75 VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT/EXT. DAY The August sun is blazing hot. People are forced to stay inside when the sirocco blows. The streets are empty. And there is a strange silence. Nothing can be heard except far in the distance, from somewhere in the country, the love song of some carter.SALVATORE hears it too, stretched out on the floor of his room, his eyes fixed on the ceiling where flies buzz around nervously. The MAILMAN comes down the street on his bicycle, rides up to SALVATORE and hands him a letter.Sitting in the shade of a white wall, SALVATORE reads the letter. Next to him, the dog that kept him company at night, beneath ELENA's window. He gazes up at him as if looking for news of her.
SALVATORE: Now he is sitting outside on the back steps, a few yards from the sea. There is a breeze this evening, the waves are rather high and the boats of 'gate-crashers' can be seen out in the water, rolling fitfully but not dangerously. SALVATORE stretches out, gazes up at the inky sky and talks to himself, just like a madman, A clap of thunder explodes in the air. Loud, rumbling. SALVATORE'S eyes pop open. The Arena audience looks up in alarm at the sky.The 'gate-crashers' in the boats also look up and see a streak of lightning ushering in another clap of thunder. One of those storms is building up that ruins late summer nights. SALVATORE gives a contented smile as the cloudburst pours down violently, suddenly. The Arena audience scatters with a howl and scurries over to the overhanging roofs of the projection booth, to take shelter and to go on watching the film despite the rain.
SALVATORE: When will this shitty summer be over? In a film it'd already be finished. .Fade-out and cut to a nice thunderstorm!!! Huh? that'd be A clap of thunder explodes in the air. Loud, rumbling. SALVATORE'S eyes pop open. The Arena audience looks up in alarm at the sky.The 'gate-crashers' in the boats also look up and see a streak of lightning ushering in another clap of thunder. One of those storms is building up that ruins late summer nights. SALVATORE gives a contented smile as the cloudburst pours down violently, suddenly. The Arena audience scatters with a howl and scurries over to the overhanging roofs of the projection booth, to take shelter and to go on watching the film despite the rain.
SALVATORE: Elena!.But when.
ELENA: I got back today. You can't imagine the excuses I had to make up to be SALVATORE's lips interrupt her. It is an intense, a stupendous kiss. They've probably never been so happy as they are at that moment. They cling to each other as the rain goes on streaming over their bodies, mingling her hair with his, binding them ever closer.
MAILMAN: Don Ciccio, this is for Toto. Give it
ALFREDO: What is it?
SPACCAFICO: Holy blood of Judas! Now what am I going to do??!
ELENA: So what'd they say?
SALVATORE: The army says that, as a war orphan, I don't have to serve in the military, but nothing can be done. It's a bureaucratic error. I have to leave. Day after tomorrow morning. They're sending me to Rome. But they'll discharge me ten days later. Let's go.
ELENA: No, Salvatore. You'd better go. It's my father.
SALVATORE: Good, this way we can finally talk. I'll convince him this time.
ELENA: He won't be convinced, Salvatore. He has other plans for me.
SALVATORE: The son of one of his colleagues. Don't act that way. We'll talk about it later. Wait for me Thursday at the Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with the five o'clock bus.
ELENA: The son of one of his colleagues. Don't act that way. We'll talk about it later. Wait for me Thursday at the Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with the five o'clock bus.
SPACCAFICO: Toto, this is no film for the common herd. One day'll be more than enough.So tonight, please set up tomorrow's film, so the projectionist who is coming will find it ready.
SALVATORE: SPACCAFICO understands SALVATORE's sadness.
SPACCAFICO: Cheer up, Toto. I'll be here waiting for you. No one's taking your job away from you. Don't worry!
ALFREDO: You weren't expecting me?
SALVATORE: ( Nervously ) No, Alfredo, I was coming to help ( Smiling ) You were expecting her? Huh? ( SALVATORE doesn't answer. He's too worried, too upset. ALFREDO climbs another step, whispering. ) .It's a nasty business waiting by yourself. In company it's better. No?.Then I'll leave.
ALFREDO: ( Smiling ) You were expecting her? Huh? ( SALVATORE doesn't answer. He's too worried, too upset. ALFREDO climbs another step, whispering. ) .It's a nasty business waiting by yourself. In company it's better. No?.Then I'll leave.
SALVATORE: Alfredo, I need your help!
SALVATORE: Open up! Open up! Elenaaa!
ALFREDO: TotooooO! TotooooO!
SPECTATORS: Lights! Christ, what a piece of crap!! We want OUT money back!!! Heeeeey!! Bandits!!
ALFREDO: But where'd you go, Toto?!!
SALVATORE: I'm here! Take it easy! Take it easy! Sit down, sit down. Did she come?
ALFREDO: No, nobody came.
SALVATORE: Radio Operator Di Vita Salvatore! Third Battalion, Ninth Company, Target practice. SALVATORE fires all the shots in the cartridge, one after the A SECOND LIEUTENANT barks out a march rhythm in the blazing sun.
SECOND LIEUTENANT: One, two, one, two!! Attention! Left SALVATORE sneaks out of line, goes over and slips a letter into the mailbox and hurries back to his place.
SALVATORE: Aaaaaaah! Heeeeeelp!!
SALVATORE: ( Aggressively ) Colonel, I was supposed to spend ten days here and it's been about a year, and I haven't ever gone borne. I'd like a furlough, at least!
SALVATORE: ( He has touched the extreme of suffering, a young man who has been denied love and affection, his rights, freedom. A NURSE comes up. )
NURSE: Di Vita Salvatore, get ready, your discharge has come through.
ALFREDO: You 're thinner.You can tell you've not been treated well.
SALVATORE: They tell me you never go out, never talk to anybody. Why?
ALFREDO: Toto, sooner or later there comes a time when talking or keeping quiet is the same thing. So it's better to shut up. It's hot in here. Toto, take me to the beach.
SALVATORE: At the Christmas party the lieutenant pinches a girl's ass. The girl turns around: it's the daughter of the commanding officer. The lieutenant is scared to death and says: 'Miss, if your heart is as hard as what I have just touched, I'm done for!
ALFREDO: ( Seriously ) Did you ever see her again? ( SALVATORE'S laughter dies away, taken off-guard as he is. Then he lights a cigarette. )
SALVATORE: No. And nobody knows where she is.
ALFREDO: It was probably meant to be like this. Each of us has a star to follow. So now what are you thinking of doing?
SALVATORE: Listen to this one.The commander says to the sergeant: 'You remember that windmill that used to be there?' 'Yes, sir, I remember the mill's gone but the wind's still You remember the story of the soldier and the princess?
SALVATORE: Now I understand why the soldier went away just before the end. That's right, just one more night and the princess would have been his. But she, also, could not have kept her promise. And.that would have been terrible, he would have died from it. So instead, for ninety-nine nights at least he had lived with the illusion that she was there waiting for him.
ALFREDO: Do like the soldier, Toto! Go away! This land is cursed. When you're here every day you feel like you're at the center of the universe, it seems like nothing ever changes. Then you go away, one year, two.And when you come back, everything's different. The thread has broken. You don't find those you were looking for, your things no longer exist. Isn't that the case?.You've got to go away a long time, for many, many years, before coming back and finding your people again, the land where you were born.But not now, it's impossible. Now you're blinder than I
SALVATORE: Who said that? Gary Cooper, James Stewart, Henry Fonda? Huh?
ALFREDO: No, Toto, nobody said it. I say it! Life's not like you saw it in the movies. Life.is harder. Get out! Go back to Rome. You 're young, the world is yours! And I'm old.I don't want to hear you talk any more, I want to hear talk about SALVATORE gives a shudder that runs through his very soul. The setting sun lies colorless on the horizon.
ALFREDO: Don't come back any more, don't think about us, don't turn round, don't write, don't give in to nostalgia. Forget us all. If you can't hear it and come back, don't come looking for me, I won't let you into the house, you understand?
SALVATORE: Thanks for all you've done for me.
ALFREDO: Whatever you do, love it like you loved that projection booth of the Paradiso when you were little.
PRIEST: ( Shouting ) Goodbye, TotooooooO!!! I got here too late. What a shame!
MARIA: It's Toto.I knew it.
MARIA: Lia'll be so glad to see you, you'll see. And you won't recognize the kids any more, they're grown up by They're always writing to me saying they want to come to Rome!
SALVATORE: ( Smiling ) They're always writing to me saying they want to come to Rome!
MARIA: See how pretty the house is? We did everything over. If it hadn't been for you! Come, I have a surprise.. You must be tired. If you want to rest, there's time before the No, Mamma, it only takes an hour by air, you know.
SALVATORE: ( Interrupting her ) No, Mamma, it only takes an hour by air, you know.
MARIA: ( Smiling, ironically ) You shouldn't tell me that now. After all these years! ( SALVATORE gets the message, feels guilty. Thinking about it, it seems incredible that he has never come before. MARIA opens a door, steps aside to let her son in, whispers: ) I put all your things in here. Go in, go in.
ANNA: He would have been happy you came, Toto. He always talked about you. Always! Right to the end! He was terribly fond of you. He left two things for you. Come see me before you leave.
SALVATORE: ( Under his breath ) How long's it been shut?
SPACCAFICO: Six years ago this May. No one came any more. You "know better than me, Mr. Di Vita, the crisis, television, videos. By now the movie business is only a dream. The city's bought it now to make a new parking lot. Next Saturday they're tearing it down.A pity!.
SALVATORE: But why do you call me 'Mr. Di Vita'? It didn't used to be that way.
SPACCAFICO: Well, it's hard to call an important person by his first name. But if it really matters to you, I'11 call SALVATORE smiles at that. Meanwhile, the procession has reached the church. SALVATORE excuses himself and goes over to the hearse. Old SPACCAFICO watches him go, then says, almost to himself )
SPACCAFICO: Bless you, Toto.
SARA: ( Playfully ) Uncle, the next time Granny comes to Rome, I want to come along too. I want to see what you do when you ( Smiling ) Fine. But I warn you, there isn't much to see. I sell much more smoke than fire.
SALVATORE: ( Smiling ) Fine. But I warn you, there isn't much to see. I sell much more smoke than fire.
ALFIO: ( To SALVATORE ) Watch out, don't get too familiar with those two ( indicating the children ) they're worse than cannibals. They'll take advantage.
FILIPPO: You leaving tomorrow, Uncle?
SALVATORE: I don't know, Filippo. I don't They go on eating, but SALVATORE isn't very hungry. Re peers at LIA eating out of the comer of his eye, feels deeply bound to her she has a few white hairs and light wrinkles line her face.
MARIA: ( To SALVATORE ) It must be for you.They've been calling all afternoon. They wanted to know if you're leaving this evening or tomorrow.
SALVATORE: A double whisky, please.
SALVATORE: Excuse me, Miss. I'm so sorry, I thought you were someone else.
GIRL: ( Shrugging ) She has already started the motor of her bike. A flip of the accelerator and off she goes, her hair flying in the wind.
MARIA: What are you thinking, Toto?
SALVATORE: I was thinking.that we've never talked, Mamma.When I was little I saw you as if you were already old. That's probably true with all kids. Who knows? But only now do I realize you were young, you were beautiful, had a whole life before you. But how. .how could you have lived alone all that time, with no one to look after you? You could have remarried.Why not? At the time I probably wouldn't have understood, but I would have later.
MARIA: I never had anybody. If that's what you think.I didn't want anybody. I always remained faithful. First to your father, then to you, to Lia. That's the way I'm made, there's nothing I can do about it. And you're like me, you're too honest and too attached to the things you love.But I don't know if that's a good thing. Faithfulness is a bad business. If you're faithful, you're always alone! It's my fault! It would have been better if I hadn't called you.
SALVATORE: ( Whispering ) No.It's nothing to do with you. It's just that I was scared of coming back. Now, after all these years, I thought I was strong, that I had forgotten lots of things. Instead, I find it's quite the opposite, as if I had never left. And yet, I look at Lia and feel as if I didn't know her, and you, Mamma.I abandoned you, ran away like a thief, thought only of myself, and never gave you an explanation.
MARIA: ( Interrupting him ) And I never asked for one! You have nothing to explain. I always thought that what you did was right, and that was that. With no beating around the ( Smiling, playing it down ) Only one thing made me suffer: bolting the door shut before going to bed at night.
SALVATORE: You never used to do that!
MARIA: No, no.When you used to work at the movies, I could never get to sleep at night until you came home. Then when you arrived, I pretended to be asleep, but I heard all your movements. Then when you fell asleep, I'd get up and bolt the door. Then, when you left, every time I did it, I felt as if I had left somebody outside the door, far away.. But you were right to leave. You succeeded in doing what you wanted to When I call you, a different, woman always answers. I pretend I know them so they won't have to go through the embarrassment of introducing I'm sure they take me for a crazy old woman. But so far I've never heard one voice that really loves you.I would have known. And yet, I'd like to see you.settled down.fall in But your life's there. Here there are nothing but ghosts, Toto! Let it go.
SALVATORE: ( To himself ) His eyes flash, he's afraid he's understood. And now the craze to get to the bottom of it all gnaws away at him. There is no turning back.
SALVATORE: ( Mumbling ) His last name was Lo Meo, Vincenzo.
BARMAN: You want something?
SALVATORE: I'd like to speak to Signora Elena.
SALVATORE: Silence, charged with tension. Then the voice continues weakly, as if puzzled.
SALVATORE: Di Vita. Salvatore Di Vita. Do you Elena, I'm here, in the bar, across the street from your house.
SALVATORE: Elena. I'd like to see you.Let's ELENA lets the curtain drop and goes back to being a shadow. She whispers the It's been so long. Why should we meet? What good would it do?
SALVATORE: Please, don't say no.. .
MARIA: No one answers, but she can sense the presence of someone who now hangs up. MARIA is alarmed. Who could it be at this hour? And where is Toto?
ELENA: SALVATORE approaches, accepting the invitation, enters the car and shuts the door. The headlights go off and the car remains there suspended between the open sea and the harbor with its rocking boats. Inside the car, not a word. Two dark figures gaze at each other, unintelligible, as if the night were trying to further delay that meeting. The glowing reflection of a wave higher than the others now lights up their faces. ELENA was right, they are no longer the faces of teenagers, but of people on in years who study each other, searching for a truth. The howling of the wind and the crashing of the waves are louder, but ELENA and SALVATORE /rear nothing, sit glued to their seats, fixed in the endless gaze that envelops them. He is the first to break the silence in a faint
SALVATORE: How'd you know I'd be here?
SALVATORE: You're still beautiful.
ELENA: Don't be silly.I'm old. Don't look at me like that, please. Why'd you come back?
SALVATORE: Alfredo died. Do you remember him?
ELENA: Of course I remember him. I'm sorry. You were terribly fond of him.
SALVATORE: I saw your daughter. She's beautiful! Who knows how many Salvatores must be running after her.
ELENA: ( Smiling ) One or two. Bur there're not all that many Salvatores. ( SALVATORE also smiles, but a puzzled smile as if what she has said had thrown him off-guard. ) I've got a son, too.he's older. And you, do you have children?
SALVATORE: No. And I'm not married.
SALVATORE'S: too. ) Are you happy?
ELENA: All things considered, yes. Even if it wasn't what I dreamt of then.
ELENA: My husband.you know him.
SALVATORE: Sure, sure! Boccia. What's he do?
ELENA: Politics. He's the district representative. We met at the University in Pisa.
SALVATORE: And.how come you never married that guy from Tuscany?
ELENA: I didn't want to.I had to fight tooth and nail. But in the end I At that time.I was waiting for There is no resentment in her words. She has said them fondly. With the serenity of someone who has suffered greatly and then found a strong convincing way of suffering no more. For SALVATORE, it's as if one of those thunderbolts had pierced his heart. He leans over, gazing into her shining eyes.
SALVATORE: But I've never forgotten you, Elena!
ELENA: ( Whispering ) Nor have I. Even though you ( SALVATORE is staggered, feels as if he were plunging into the void. What she has said strikes him as grotesque. ELENA strokes his hair, as if to restrain his sinking heart, gives a sweet smile. ) But what's the point of talking about it? We risk being pathetic and ( And she tries to change the subject. ) You still live in Rome?
SALVATORE: What do you mean, you were waiting for me?! What are you saying? The last time we saw each other, we made a date to meet at the Cinema Paradiso. You remember? And you didn't come, you disappeared without leaving a trace, nothing! I'll tell you how many years have gone by: more than thirty!!!
ELENA: I kept that date. But I was late. I had a fight with my family. I tried to convince them again that they couldn't separate us. But it was futile. They had decided to leave Sicily once and for all. Which is what we did. I didn't know what to do any more, what to say. And I said yes, I'd do whatever they wanted. In return, my father promised to let me see you one last time, to say goodbye. But I hoped that by seeing each other we could take advantage of it and make a decision.I thought we would run away together. My father drove me to the movie theatre. But you weren't in the projection booth. Only Alfredo.
ELENA'S VOICE: ( Off-screen ) And I didn't have time to wait for you to comeback.
YOUNG ELENA: All right, Daddy!.
ELENA'S VOICE: ( Off-screen ) So I told Alfredo how things stood and fiat I was leaving the same evening, and I asked him to tell you everything. He was very kind, he listened carefully, then.
ALFREDO: Easy, easy. Listen carefully to what I have to say. If you want me to tell Toto what you've told me, I will. But if you want my advice, forget it. It's better for both of you if you don't see each other. Dear girl, fire always turns into ashes! Even the deepest love ends sooner or later. And after that other loves appear, lots of them. Toto, he can't understand fiat now. If I tell him he won't believe it, he' d be capable of killing me.But you can understand, you've got to understand.Do it for him!
ELENA: It's the first time I've had to chance to tell the story. I never mentioned it to anybody.
SALVATORE: ( In a daze ) Alfredo, damn him! He cast his spell on you too!
ELENA: I told him I'd take his advice. But before I went away I left you that I was on my way down the stairs.
ELENA: But you disappeared all the same.
SALVATORE: Oh, how I looked for you, Elena! You'll never know. I wrote, telephoned, nothing. Nobody ever answered. But I dreamt of you for years! That's why I went away.and never came back here. Even as the years passed, in all the women I met, I was only looking for you. I had success it's true, but there was always something missing. I'd never have imagined that all this had to end because of the man who was like a father to me. A crazy lunatic!
ELENA: He wasn't crazy. In the beginning I was upset. I think I really hated him. But then, with time, I understood what he said.and your silence too.
SALVATORE: But I never saw that note! I must have covered it with my hand, without realizing it, that's the only
ELENA: What difference does it make to find an explanation? That's the way it went. But Alfredo didn't betray you, he was the only one who really understood you. Salvatore, if you had chosen to be with me, you'd have never made your films. And that would have been a pity! Because they're wonderful, I've seen them all. But you shouldn't have gone and changed your name. You should have kept your own.
ANNA: These are the things he left to SALVATORE is sitting by the table. He has finished the cup of coffee SIGNORA ANNA has prepared for him. He picks up the stool, recognizes it at once: it's the one ALFREDO had made for him as a little boy so he could climb up and put the reels on the projector.
ANNA: When they showed your films on television, he was happy. He'd plop himself down there and all his ailments were forgotten. He knew all the words by heart, every one, and I'd describe what was going on. And when the papers talked about you, I had to read them two or three SALVATORE examines the can, wonders what it can be. He opens it: inside is a reel of film, wrapped in a plastic bag, well preserved. Those objects bring a pang to his heart, and the things that ANNA said, but he feels disappointed, as if he expected to find something else.
SALVATORE: Did he ever think of meeting me?
ANNA: No, never! One time your mother said that if he wanted, you'd have surely come. He got furious and said 'No, Toto mustn't come back to Giancaldo, never!!' He didn't say it to be mean. He was a decent man. Who knows what he could have been thinking? Towards the end he'd say such strange things. And a moment before he shut his eyes, he told your mother not to let you 120 CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. DAY A cloud of yellowed scraps of paper flutters into the air and as it falls slowly to the ground another handful is flung up. SALVATORE is in the projection booth, looking through the countless yellowed receipts, stuffed away in boxes. He looks at them one by one, then throws them into the air. A desperate search, almost a defiance of the passing of time. He continues with greater determination, flings piles of receipts into the air, glances at a few dates, a film title, tries to discover the oldest dates at the bottom. He moves swiftly, his hands plunge in, then fling up a nimbus of paper and dust. But to no avail.He stops, short of breath. His eyes go over to the nails in the wall, where other stacks of receipts are hanging. He gets up and goes to look at them, thumbs " it through them hastily, in anger.
SALVATORE'S VOICE: ( Off-screen ) Salvatore, forgive me. I'll explain later what happened. Not finding you here was terrible. Unfortunately, this evening, my mother and I are leaving for Tuscany. We're moving there. But you' re the only one I love, I'll never be with anybody else, I promise. Here's the address of a girlfriend of mine where you can write to me. Don't abandon me. Love and kisses, Elena.
ELENA: When are you leaving?
SALVATORE: This afternoon. Elena, in the future maybe we could.
ELENA: No, Salvatore.there is no future. There's only the past. Even meeting last night was nothing but a dream, a beautiful dream. We never did it when we were kids, Now that it's happened, I don't think there could have been a better
SALVATORE: I'll never agree with you. Never, 122 CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. DAY The square, unusually empty. There is no one, and no cars and motorcycles are parked in the middle. The stores are shut. And there is an unreal silence. The houses on the two streets on either side of the theatre are covered by enormous pieces of gray canvas.
VILLAGE IDIOT: The square's mine, the square's mine, the square's mine.
SALVATORE: Please check the splices. As soon as you're ready you can start.
PROJECTIONIST: OK. Congratulations on your film. It's terrific.
SALVATORE: A COLLEAGUE of SALVATORE comes up behind him.
SALVATORE: The distributor is opening up the film earlier. The press conference is in the afternoon. The actors will also be there, the producer, just about everyone.
COLLEAGUE: The distributor is opening up the film earlier. The press conference is in the afternoon. The actors will also be there, the producer, just about everyone.
ASSISTANT: The official notification of the award just came out, but we've already received a mountain of telegrams. Aren't you happy?
SALVATORE: It's all right. We'll talk about it SALVATORE walks off towards the viewing theatre.
