FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY FADE IN: TITLE SEQUENCE. EXT. BIHAR - DAY ( DAWN, SUMMER, MID-1980 ) shimmering waves. After a moment, we see what appear to be figures coming out of the haze, one by one. A family with their few belongings: HASARI PAL, 33, his wife, ALOKA, 28, and their children, daughter, AMRITA, 13, sons MANOOJ and SHAMBU, 11 and 9; HASARI'S MOTHER and FATHER. They embark toward the night, the rising sun behind them.
PURPOSES ONLY: CITY OF JOY
HASARI: I'll send money soon. Don't let the children out of your sight. Not for a moment. Help your parents. Don't fight with each other. And, Manooj, stay away from the cinema, do you I don't want to go. There are bad men with long knives who steal
HASARI'S MOTHER: Don't let the children out of your sight. Not for a moment. Help your parents. Don't fight with each other. And, Manooj, stay away from the cinema, do you I don't want to go. There are bad men with long knives who steal
HASARI'S MOTHER: Help your parents. Don't fight with each other. And, Manooj, stay away from the cinema, do you I don't want to go. There are bad men with long knives who steal
SHAMBU: I don't want to go. There are bad men with long knives who steal
HASARI'S FATHER: A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. Yours begins here.
MANOOJ: ( to his neighbor ) Our farm has died, so we are moving to Calcutta to become rich!
MAX: Get serious. Around him, other single eyes pop open, searching for the source of this unmeditative sound. Max nods and smiles a wry smile as if to say: This just ain't doin' it for me, folks.
BETSY: I swear to God, you never give anything enough time! What did you expect in five days, Max?
MAX: Only what they promise in the brochure: Inner peace, serenity, and a nice chant that gets rid of this rock in my gut. E.S.T., they do you in a weekend.
BETSY: I would really appreciate it if you wouldn't be terribly glib just now, Max. That's okay with Max, who's willing to eschew communica- tion of all kinds and just finish heaving his stuff in the valise.
BETSY: Am I to assume you'll be at the airport in Calcutta a week from Impossible to predict, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Maybe you better give me my Screw you, Max I paid for it! How many times am I going to let you walk out on me and come back?
MAX: Impossible to predict, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Maybe you better give me my Screw you, Max I paid for it! How many times am I going to let you walk out on me and come back?
BETSY: Screw you, Max I paid for it! How many times am I going to let you walk out on me and come back?
MAX: I think only you can answer that, Betsy Ilene Kahn. She slaps him.
MAX: Do you really think that's an appropriate way to get rid of your Western rage, Bets? She swings at him again. He catches her hand hard in his One slap is romantic. Two would call for retaliation. Lend me a hundred dollars. She yanks free, begins to chant her mantra as he grabs his knapsack and valise and goes out the door. Now, she's silent and, in the simplest sense, deeply hurt. She can't help herself; she cares. We STAY WITH her a moment as we
MAX: One slap is romantic. Two would call for retaliation. Lend me a hundred dollars. She yanks free, begins to chant her mantra as he grabs his knapsack and valise and goes out the door. Now, she's silent and, in the simplest sense, deeply hurt. She can't help herself; she cares. We STAY WITH her a moment as we
MAX: How you doin'? The Clerk gives Max a warm smile.
CLERK: I've always wanted to walk into a little airport just about like this one and ask the guy at the counter the following question. The Clerk nods; he's at Max's ervice.
MAX: I've always wanted to walk into a little airport just about like this one and ask the guy at the counter the following question. The Clerk nods; he's at Max's ervice.
MAX: When's the next flight to anywhere?
CLERK: To Bombay. Tomorrow, at one o'clock in the afternoon. A beat - the Clerk with his smile, Max with his, one simply warm, the other giving off simmering heat.
ANOTHER ANGLE: The rubicund face of VEEJAY CHATTERGEE, 50, and more British than Churchill. Behind him, his cherubic wife, RAVI. and making her way toward the enclave of small planes, their daughter, MANUBAI, 26.
VEEJAY: I say, are you looking for a way out of here? We have an extra seat. Where are you wanting to Max's eyes flick from Veejay to the back view of Manubai as she continues on and back to Veejay.
MAX: I'm wanting to go wherever you're wanting to take me.
ANOTHER ANGLE: would be in the left seat, it's Manubai who's flying the plane. The NOISE of the ENGINE forces them to speak somewhat loudly.
VEEJAY: We were among the fortunate back in '48. We got out of East Bengal before partition destroyed so many. We make mattresses. The Rajah Double Spring. Veejay has an old flask out.
VEEJAY: We don't have a flight attendant on this flight. Are you a musician, Mr. Loeb?
MAX: Unattached trumpet player and recently-certified associate guru. As he takes a hit on the flask, Max's eye focuses on the little mirror on the dash. In it he can see Manubai's eyes. If we were to judge by what he sees in them, she doesn't find him the least bit amusing. He smiles his smile at her.
MANOOJ: Daddy, I'm scared.
HASARI: Scared? No why? This is very exciting. As soon as we get to our friend's house, everything will be fine. But, despite Hasari's charade of confidence, they ( and we ) are overwhelmed by the size of the station and the desperate energy of the humanity around them. As they press on, a small beggar woman huddled on the platform turns her eyes eerily on Manooj. as a deformed hand stretches INTO the FRAME. Aloka senses someone: A beggar, face half-hidden and eaten away by leprosy. This terrifying image presses the boys tightly to their mother and moves Hasari to encircle Armita with one hand and attempt to wrap the other three inside the embrace of his other hand. It does not seem possible that he can protect all of them against the predatory eyes watching them. He moves them quickly to a wall.
HASARI: Wait right here. Don't move.
WITH HASARI: one, as he digs out his precious screw of money to make a purchase of sweets from the Vendor.
HASARI: Please, can you direct me to my friend at this address? We are to stay with him. The Vendor gives the address a look, shows it to the Vendor next to him. Both look at Hasari.
VENDOR #1: There's no such address as this in But that's not possible.
HASARI: But that's not possible.
VENDOR #1: Of course it is possible! I have lived here all my life. You are new. Who would know if a place exists or does not?
VENDOR #2: Bombay, perhaps. Delhi. Look rupee and, with the sweets, turns back to his family, his face going through a magical transformation as he prepares to suggest to the family that all is well.
ANOTHER ANGLE: crowd. They've been walking a long time. Shambu cries; Aloka tries to ease his fear. They stop numbly at the edge of the park, put their bundles down against a long Across the way, a thin policeman shares a cigarette with a group of traders. There is a deeply fearful look in Hasari's eyes, a look he is having difficulty controlling now. He needs to revive the family's confidence. He takes out his precious bundle of rupees and gives one to Manooj. Manooj, though, is fixed on the cinema across the street. Hasari indicates a stall just across the main road.
HASARI: Manooj, go and get some fruit. Come straight back. Delighted with his task, Manooj sets off, his eyes on the marquee of the theater with its huge cardboard cutout of Kumar Kapur, starring in Hot Gun. Hasari calls out to him to watch where he's going; the mere crossing of the street is a potential parental nightmare. A hand ruffles Manooj's head and a TALL MAN with dark eyes and a sweet smile comes at the boy's anxious parents.
HASARI: Yes, how did you know?
GANGOOLY: Let me say only that the terrible malevolence that has visited your part of the country affects us all.
HASARI: Three years without rain. Nothing came out of the earth but debts.
GANGOOLY: Terrible. And now, the family on the street. It is not acceptable. And if I can't help, my name is not Mr. Gangooly. Which, blessedly, it is. And now a smile as full as the sky above.
GANGOOLY: Be free look around. On the faces of the family is one thought: Is it possible? Amrita goes right to the parrots.
GANGOOLY: They'll need feeding. Give them seed. But don't spoil them.
GANGOOLY: And now, one of the miracles of life in the city. One and two. He turns on the tap and a stream of brown WATER GURGLES out. The Pals are hypnotized, the fists around their hearts begin to ease.
GANGOOLY: Holy water from the Ganges! Flows out forever. Come touch it. Manooj and Shambu put their hands under the tap.
GANGOOLY: Drink! It's as pure as the dew on Shiva's lips. They drink. Gangooly claps in delight. and beckons Hasari aside.
GANGOOLY: Now, this place is yours for two weeks. My cousin, Moti, is away, traveling. Normally, the rent takes fifty rupees for a week, but for a brother, forty. No, don't thank me. Hasari pulls out his little screw of money.
HASARI: I have only seventy-five, but as soon as I have work.
GANGOOLY: Give me the fifty, pay the rest next week. You'll find work, I trust you. Aren't I from Bihar, too? Yes. And the money is in his hand. He joins his hands You are pleased? Then Mr. Gangooly is pleased. It's how I am.
GANGOOLY: You are pleased? Then Mr. Gangooly is pleased. It's how I am.
RAVI: I hope this is all right. The room hasn't been aired or the bed turned, but
VEEJAY: Oh, he doesn't care about that, do you, Max? Here, look here.
VEEJAY: Help yourself. Be comfortable. Ravi, come on, go, go, let's leave the young man to himself.
HIS POV: INT. MAIN ROOM - DAY and Amrita. Joyful SHOUTS from the boys. Hasari is alone in the main room, on his knees, in front of the pile of their baggage and bundles. He turns his atten- tion from the laughter to a just-opened, old suitcase. He takes out a small tea box. Opens it delicately.
MAX: INT. MAIN ROOM - DAY and Amrita. Joyful SHOUTS from the boys. Hasari is alone in the main room, on his knees, in front of the pile of their baggage and bundles. He turns his atten- tion from the laughter to a just-opened, old suitcase. He takes out a small tea box. Opens it delicately.
MAN: What are you doing here? Who are My name is Pal, Hasari. Mr. Gangooly rented this space to
HASARI: My name is Pal, Hasari. Mr. Gangooly rented this space to
MAN: Mr. Who?
HASARI: Gangooly. You must be his cousin, Mr. Moti.
MAN: I don't know any Gangooly and my name is Binal and this is my home get out! The furious Binal, followed by the Pals, goes into the main part of the room. A small crowd has been attracted by the noise.
HASARI: But this is true. We paid him a deposit of fifty
BINAL: A man goes out because he has to work, and some beggar tries to move in while his back is turned.
BINAL: So, should I suffer if they are so stupid to jump into the first mouth that wants to eat them? He turns with the stick on Hasari.
BINAL: You're lucky I don't kill you! Hasari looks at Manooj, who drops his eyes. They collect the remainder of their possessions and hurry out the EXT. SMALL STREET - DAY air. A man pushes Aloka. Sweat streaming down his face, Hasari confronts the man. A WOMAN pushes the men apart.
WOMAN: Go to the river. Try to squeeze in there.
ANOTHER ANGLE: I'm starving. He gives her his best saint's smile.
MAX: I'm starving. He gives her his best saint's smile.
RAVI: Well, you don't want to eat those awful cigars. Come with me, we'll wake up the cook, she'll fix you something proper.
MANOOJ: Tiny figures huddled together with their baggage and bundles, near a tree, not far from the steps that dip down to the smooth water. Hasari's eyes, too, are on the dead man, that warning. He kneels beside Manooj, strokes him. The boy's eyes turns to the man's, wondering if the man can provide for them.
FAMILY: Tiny figures huddled together with their baggage and bundles, near a tree, not far from the steps that dip down to the smooth water. Hasari's eyes, too, are on the dead man, that warning. He kneels beside Manooj, strokes him. The boy's eyes turns to the man's, wondering if the man can provide for them.
HASARI: Don't let it frighten you. You have to be brave. I know we'll find work today. Fear and doubt fill Manooj's eyes. He nods.
ANOTHER ANGLE: is on the edge of panic, but when he turns to the family, he's wearing his confident smile. As before, he gathers the family into the protectorate of his arms and guides them onward. As he pushes off into the sea of humanity, we PULL BACK AND UP, FILLING the FRAME WITH street upon street, disappearing Hasari.
RAVI: It's not extravagant at all. You can't go around all week in your tribal garb. Max sees a boy's face pressed to the glass: he indicates the shirt, for the boy's approval. The boy smiles a wonderful smile.
RAVI: Now he looks civilized, doesn't he, Manubai?
MANUBAI: Max looks at her. She at him.
MAX: You sure I look all right? The little boy nods. Max slips him several rupees. and he, Manubai, and Ravi fold themselves into her tiny car as
ANOTHER ANGLE: Look! A man gave me these many What man? Why did you ask him for money?
SHAMBU: Look! A man gave me these many What man? Why did you ask him for money?
HASARI: What man? Why did you ask him for money?
SHAMBU: He just gave it to me.
HASARI: Where is he? Shambu looks, but the car's gone.
HASARI: Don't do that. We're not beggars. Shambu is devastated. Out of his own desperation, Hasari feels he's been a little rough on the boy. He holds him close.
HASARI: Go back to the river. Wait for me by the tree. Don't go anywhere. Do you understand? Aloka, the boys nod. We WATCH them as Hasari heads off, quickly becoming a small figure disappearing into the sea.
CLERK: Do you have family?
HASARI: Yes, yes of course. But I'm three days without work. I'll take anything. The Clerk digs in his pocket, presses two rupees on Here, now go away.
CLERK: Here, now go away.
HASARI: No, I don't want you to give me The next man in line forcibly moves Hasari out of the In this city, a man with a family can't be proud. Take it! The Clerk waves him away, turns his attention to the next man.
CLERK: In this city, a man with a family can't be proud. Take it! The Clerk waves him away, turns his attention to the next man.
MAX: I said you have three days to get me into bed, and I'm betting you can't do it.
MANUBAI: It's all right for you to use my mother as your tour guide and meal ticket, because she'll get something nice out of it. But what would I get? He stares at her a moment, then gets up, goes around the Well, gee, I don't know. Maybe I could say something so amusing that you'd laugh so hard it would break that hot poker you have up your ass. She stares at him. He bends to kiss her. She doesn't pull away. but after a moment he realizes she isn't responding. He continues the kiss, but he opens his eyes. to find her staring at him. He pulls back. They stare at each other another moment, then Max senses someone in the doorway.
MAX: Well, gee, I don't know. Maybe I could say something so amusing that you'd laugh so hard it would break that hot poker you have up your ass. She stares at him. He bends to kiss her. She doesn't pull away. but after a moment he realizes she isn't responding. He continues the kiss, but he opens his eyes. to find her staring at him. He pulls back. They stare at each other another moment, then Max senses someone in the doorway.
RAVI: EXT. CHATTERGEE HOME - DAY a waiting taxi.
MAX: EXT. CHATTERGEE HOME - DAY a waiting taxi.
VEEJAY: Believe me, I understand, but you know how women are. Do you have enough money? Max gives him a non-commital shrug. Veejay winks, stuffs the money into Max's pocket.
ANOTHER ANGLE: white shirt and bellbottoms through the walled and well planted courtyard of an inexpensive hotel. Max gives the cow a bemused eye.
PORTER: It pleases you?
MAX: No fruit basket? No mini bar?
PORTER: Bar? Of course many, many. But make care, Sahib. Please, for me. If it is lady you like to know yes? you let me. Huh? Very sweet girl, good nature, very sweet. Or boy, very
PORTER: No like boy? Something then for smoke mmmh, very good for smoke!
AT DOOR: Maybe you like two girls look a little Chinese, but very great
PORTER: Maybe you like two girls look a little Chinese, but very great
RESUME: EXT. RIVERBANK - HOWRAH BRIDGE - DAY ( EARLY EVENING ) on his face, clutching some bananas and dried grain. His relief and ours is short-lived.
HASARI: My wife, my children. Hasari rushes on. Suddenly we
SHAMBU: Now, Aloka, Amrita, Manooj appear, rising up out of the sea, ending Hasari's nightmare. A warrior returning from battle, Hasari engulfs the little boy.
HASARI: I told you to remain where I left you! I told you to stay there!
MANOOJ: The police came!
SHAMBU: We said we had to meet you, but they didn't care! They were As before, Hasari tries to engulf the rest of his family in the protectorate of his arms. In the b.g., Arun and his family.
ALOKA: These friends have found space. They will share with us. Hasari looks at the tiny space. The roof is cardboard and cloth and half an old movie poster featuring the actor Kumar Kapur. Hasari looks at his tiny bit of food, debates a moment. then puts his hands together, addresses these generous people.
HASARI: I would be proud if you would share our food with us. Everyone looks at the food; there is no disguising their EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT children sleep despite the QUIET MOANS and nightmare CRIES around them, the two boys huddled together, Amrita close to her mother. Hasari comes out of the dark. Aloka looks at him. He shakes his head. He slumps beside her. Aloka strokes Hasari, looking lovingly at him.
ALOKA: I remember the first time I saw you, on the day of our marriage. Wearing a bright yellow turban. You asked me my name and you said, 'You are a very beautiful girl and I am wondering whether you will find me appealing.' He strokes her tenderly in return. but now, overwhelmed with despair, she begins to weep.
HASARI: She doesn't want to say it, doesn't want to wake the
HASARI: It's all right what?
ALOKA: I miss the village. There I could help. Hasari pulls Aloka close, strokes her.
ANOTHER ANGLE: children as Hasari moves instinctively toward the threat.
PALS: children as Hasari moves instinctively toward the threat.
SCENE: a BABU. A microphone and speaker has been set up. Another car unloads several politicos with party banners. A minion hands the Babu the mike; he wants to get on with it before this turns into a political rally. Hasari is close to him, as is Arun.
BABU: The municipality has directed us to carry out the destruction of this settlement. All of you must go now! For a moment there is a babble of fear and frustration. Then from Hasari's side, Arun confronts the Babu.
ARUN: For what reason? The Babue appears disconcerted. He's not accustomed to the poor asking questions.
BABU: Because this settlement is impeding construction work.
ARUN: We're not moving! Why should we move? Who is the municipality? We are! This is our home!
BABU: I have my orders.
ARUN: If we're driven from here, where should we go?
BABU: I'll give you five minutes to gather your things. Then, the settlement comes down.
ARUN: Why should you alone be burdened with such a task? Let me help! Arun begins to tear his shelter apart, and to heave the pieces at the Babu, who retreats. Others soon take up the call to vent their frustration, hurling things at the police and at the driver of the tractor. Quickly we've got a full-scale riot. The police wade into the crowd, pounding people with their sticks, Arun one of the first to get hit. He staggers into Hasari's arms.
SHAMBU: Daddy, are we going to die here? Hasari can see on everyone's face this question.
HASARI: No! Today, I'm just a mangy dog on the street, but soon, I swear, I'll look other men in the eye! I swear. Yet on his face we see the extraordinary pressure to make this promise reality.
ANOTHER ANGLE: body, his face broken out in perspiration.
HASARI: I thought you were only taking a We pay more, we take more.
ATTENDANT: We pay more, we take more.
HASARI: I'm feeling a little dizzy.
ATTENDANT: It'll pass.
HIS POV: Rafik and a thin man chatting easily and exchanging ciga- rettes with another attendant. His vision BLURS.
RAFIK: Blood is the oil well of the poor, brother. Now, give me another three and I'll give you these. He opens his hand with its dirty nails. In it lie a little group of pills, like highly-colored sweets.
HASARI: What are those?
RAFIK: Vitamins. Take these and you can give again in a week. While Hasari considers, Rafik pours the pills into Hasari's hand, takes the three rupees. Hasari downs the One week. Here. The same time. And he's gone, leaving Hasari, woozy but at least, for the moment, blessed to count his money.
RAFIK: One week. Here. The same time. And he's gone, leaving Hasari, woozy but at least, for the moment, blessed to count his money.
MAX: They're in the shotgun. There's the snap from center, the clock is running five, four, three he has an open man at the Notre Dame twenty for the victory. and he freezes. He freezes! Mr. Choke chokes. The fans go A KNOCK at the door. Max shuts up, falls off the wall. He crosses to the door. Opens it. POOMINA is 16, beautiful and exotic-looking behind her excessive makeup.
MAX: Got an I.D. on you? How old are you?
POOMINA: Twenty, sahib.
MAX: I buy that. She approaches him seductively.
POOMINA: I can do anything you want, sahib. She fingers the Hebrew letter at Max's throat, on its gold chain. For a moment, Max is mesmerized by this child; but then, as she begins more serious ministra- tions, he pulls back.
MAX: Hold it, time out. Time, there's time out on the field.
POOMINA: Is problems, sahib?
MAX: Is problems, yeah, just a couple.
POOMINA: No, please, yes, I can There's something desperate in her that makes him put a finger to her lips and say.
MAX: How 'bout some chow? I was just about to order some room service. Food. I call, they come, we eat. She stares at him.
POOMINA: Now, you are ready for great pleasure, yes?
MAX: Watching you eat was my great pleasure. Now you go home. As he escorts her toward the door, Poomina is distressed. Max realizes she can't leave empty-handed. He pulls out some notes.
MAX: For you. She hasn't given up, though, and as he takes the money, she stands on tiptoe and kisses him. Torn, Max begins to respond. He stops himself, his grip on her causing her discomfort. His breath comes in little bursts.
MAX: You're a very wet kisser. Work on it, get in touch in five years. He leads her toward the door. Like some lunatic comedy. she resists. He pushes. She locks her knees. He opens the door.
MAX: Goddamn it, cut it out! Now, good He muscles her out the door, closes it, wipes his lips. He stares at a parade of cockroaches gliding along the wall as he listens to her CRYING quietly on the other side of the door. He debates. and he loses. Opens the door. Poomina stands there; the tears stop and a lip- twitching smile lights her face.
MAX: Five years already? Gee, time really flies when you have no moral conviction. She slides into his arms, pressing against him. With his shoulder, he closes the door, leaving us outside.
MAX: Short guys! Quit lookin' at us! This remark goes over big with the thugs. Max doesn't care. He knocks off the last of the beer in his bottle. The bartender brings them two shots of something in two unmatched glasses.
POOMINA: Special drink for you, sahib. Only the most man can drink it. You make try. For me.
MAX: For you, I would drink battery Who that finish first. I bet! She puts her glass to her lips and, in a childish, exaggerated way, mimes waiting for him to commence a drinking race with her. The two of them toss off what's in their glasses. The bangla in Max's glass is stronger than battery acid. He does an elaborate routine involv- ing the pain, the surprise, the sheer awfulness of the drink. But puts it down with mock machismo.
POOMINA: Who that finish first. I bet! She puts her glass to her lips and, in a childish, exaggerated way, mimes waiting for him to commence a drinking race with her. The two of them toss off what's in their glasses. The bangla in Max's glass is stronger than battery acid. He does an elaborate routine involv- ing the pain, the surprise, the sheer awfulness of the drink. But puts it down with mock machismo.
POOMINA: I beat!
MAX: I really don't think so oh no, nay, nay! I never lose the truly irrelevant contest.
POOMINA: We have fun some more. I bet while, in the b.g., The Goonda and his two thugs watch emotionlessly and Ashoka works on his acne.
MAX: Well well. Seek punishment and ye shall find.
ARUN: Don't go what are you doing?
HASARI: It sounds like someone needs help.
ALLEYWAY: three men beating someone, a fourth man standing off to the side, watching.
HASARI: What are you doing? A man's being beaten here!
ANOTHER ANGLE: under one eye. Joan, Irish, short, stout, hovers over him. Behind her, Hasari Pal.
JOAN: Good morning, junior, welcome to our country. Max manages to sit up. Wishes he hadn't.
MAX: Oh, I like the way the room moves in circles. I suppose I should inquire where I You're in the City of Joy.
JOAN: You're in the City of Joy.
MAX: Is that geographic or spiritual?
JOAN: Oh, now we require that each visitor decide that for himself. This gentleman and a young lady brought you here.
MAX: Did I do that to your nose? I'm sorry.
MAX: What was that a Shetland pony?
JOAN: I would have to inspect it more closely, but I believe that was one of our economy-size rats. Watch your
JOAN: Watch your
MAX: Thanks got it.
SQUARE: a slum, an open sewer running before him. He's repulsed.
MAX: Pardon the expression, but Jesus H. Christ.
ANOTHER ANGLE: children, staring at him.
MAX: You a doctor?
JOAN: Oh no, I'm a corporate executive. Doctor arrives at half seven, but only three days a week.
MAX: This is obviously one of those three days.
JOAN: Indeed. What brings you to our I came to find my white light.
MAX: I came to find my white light.
JOAN: Ah, yes. I take it you didn't find it.
MAX: Kept opening the doors and windows of my spirit, but couldn't see a goddamn thing.
JOAN: What do you do in America? Max is slow to answer. Discreetly, Hasari hangs back, Oh, how exciting. Must be something illegal. Are you a criminal of some sort?
JOAN: Oh, how exciting. Must be something illegal. Are you a criminal of some sort?
MAX: I suppose that depends how you define the word: I'm a doctor.
JOAN: I see. How long are you here? Perhaps I could recruit you for
MAX: Forget it. You've got your non- practicing Catholics. I'm a non- practicing doctor.
JOAN: How very distressing. Why's that?
MAX: Found out I just really don't like sick people. Well, I'm outta here. I owe you one.
JOAN: I can't imagine ever divining how to collect, but there are a few of us Indians, you know, who believe the tourist trade ought to be Max turns to Hasari. Hasari is incredibly shy, can barely meet Max's eyes.
MAX: Thank you very much. Let me. He goes for his money.
HASARI: No, please. Max finds his pockets empty. Then reaches for his wrist his watch is gone and then his throat his chai is gone, too.
JOAN: I'm afraid they cleaned you out. Ram, here's your first rider. Take this. She holds out several rupees toward him. All eyes on Go on, it's all right. You'll owe me two.
JOAN: Go on, it's all right. You'll owe me two.
HASARI: You see, I can keep up.
RAM: Keep up, of course. Anyone can run at this pace. But you think it's easy to run and to pull?
HASARI: I can do it. I could pull it.
MAX: Come on, give him a shot. He's as fast as you and looks twice as Will you still pay me when he runs you into a ditch?
RAM: Will you still pay me when he runs you into a ditch?
MAX: Absolutely. I trust the man. Suddenly, Ram comes to a stop.
RAM: All right, you, come, step in here. Hasari looks on Max with enormous gratitude. Ram puts the shafts down, has a short coughing fit, spits some phlegm, looks at Max.
MAX: I hope you're taking something for Ram waves him off as Hasari lifts the shafts to his hips.
RAM: Now, fine, pull, go. Hasari tries to pull, but the center of gravity isn't easy to find. This is enormously difficult and Hasari's very clumsy at it. The street is crowded. The traffic is beginning to back up behind them. The driver and conductor of the tram let fly a tirade of insults.
RAM: See, mister! What did I tell you? Come on! What do you think this is some village street? You've got to move quickly. He turns to Max.
RAM: You see, it takes a gift.
MAX: I say he can do it. I'll bet you the fare he can do it. What do you think, rickshaw fans, can he do it? The crowd isn't in for fun. Hasari strains forward. The rickshaw moves with him. Ram moves alongside, shouting instructions and oaths. A cop comes on the run, screaming at Hasai. which makes Ram importune more strongly and Max joke more vociferously. Even under this incredible pressue, Hasari gains confidence and begins to move quicker, earning shouts of approval from Max and Ram, who now has trouble keeping up as they make their way through the maelstrom, an avalanche of oaths following them.
ASHOKA: Not a tongue between you then?
RAM: Yes, yes, I am wondering, sir, we are, is it possible you might have something for my friend? Ram indicates Hasari, as if there might be some question to whom he's referring. Ashoka attacks the pimple.
RAM: Let me explain it for your ears, sir. My cousin from Bihar has just arrived in our city
GOONDA: They've brought a small present of respect. The Goonda places a small bundle of rupees on the desk. Ashoka allows himself a disinterested glance at So, you want to be a human horse?
ASHOKA: So, you want to be a human horse?
RAM: Oh yes! I have personally witnessed his excellence yes.
ASHOKA: He doesn't talk? Can he neigh at You do your ears function?
HASARI: Oh yes, Babu. Can I. uhm.?
ASHOKA: Neigh! Like a horse. Ashoka pulls back his lips, shows his teeth and imitates a neigh: "Ne-igh! Ne-igh!"
HASARI: Well, yes, Babu, I can do that. Would you like me to imitate a Finished with the pimple, Ashoka wipes a finger on his shirt and takes a helping off a plate of sweetcakes ANOTHER ANGLE his glasses on. He barely glances at his son, but waves him out of the chair. Ashoka doesn't like it, but he steps aside. As he does, he turns a look of hatred on Hasari. Through no fault of his own, Hasari has made an enemy. Ghatak chews on a pan and casts a benevolent eye on Hasari.
ANOTHER ANGLE: his glasses on. He barely glances at his son, but waves him out of the chair. Ashoka doesn't like it, but he steps aside. As he does, he turns a look of hatred on Hasari. Through no fault of his own, Hasari has made an enemy. Ghatak chews on a pan and casts a benevolent eye on Hasari.
GHATAK: Lift your longhi. Hasari does. The Godfather looks at his legs and thighs.
GHATAK: The wise men of our nation say that nirvana is the attainment of a state of supreme detachment. For me, nirvana is counting each evening, one by one, the rupees earned by my two thousand and forty-six rickshaws. Hasari doesn't know whether to respond. A glance at Ram tells him not to. Ghatak gestures for Hasari to lower his longhi.
GHATAK: You are with family?
HASARI: I have a wife and three children, And they must eat, heh. The world is full of open mouths. He chews on this a moment, then opens a drawer. and holds a small, tinkling rickshaw bell toward Hasari. Hasari understands that, incredibly, he has a job. His breath is so shallow, he can barely utter his gratitude. He takes the bell.
GHATAK: And they must eat, heh. The world is full of open mouths. He chews on this a moment, then opens a drawer. and holds a small, tinkling rickshaw bell toward Hasari. Hasari understands that, incredibly, he has a job. His breath is so shallow, he can barely utter his gratitude. He takes the bell.
HASARI: I shall be eternally grateful to you. From now on, I shall be as the youngest of your brothers.
GHATAK: Stay loyal. These days, it's a crop nobody plants. The Godfather turns his beatific and Godlike smile on Hasari Pal.
WITH PALS: INT. RAM'S HUT - NIGHT Ram lights an oil lamp. In the glow, the family looks around their tiny space. Hardly able to suppress smiles.
HASARI: Someone has blessed us. A job, a roof, a school. Soon I'll be able to send money home. . and put away a little bit for your dowry.
OUTSIDE: them and:
WIDE SHOT: feet flying, as he pulls the rickshaw, loaded with a huge sack. Manooj and Shambu are clinging to the sides of the Ram stands in the center of the square. He shouts a command and Hasari struggles to bring the rickshaw to a stop. It's not easy and Sunil who's arriving has to jump out of the way to the accompaniment of apologies from Hasari and Ram and hoots of laughter from the children. Outside the clinic, a line of perhaps seventy-five wait patiently, watching as Hasari takes off again. The wheels of the rickshaw hit a rut. Hasari loses control, the sack tips back and Hasari is lifted into the air, feet kicking as he tries to regain his balance. Aloka and Amrita, sitting near the bawling Ram, can't hold back their EXT. SQUARE - HIGH ANGLE - DAY tion, we see Hasari negotiate them with much increased skill. He stops in front of a small group. It's his family, plus Joan and Surya. With an exhausted smile, he signs to Aloka and Amrita to get in. They do, and Hasari takes them triumphantly around the circuit.
HIGH ANGLE: DISSOLVE TO:
SCHOOL GIRL: Rickshaw wallah!
RAM: Let Hasari go! The line of rickshaw pullers turns to Hasari. The other pullers wish him well as he comes forward. His heart pounds; ever so politely, he helps the School Girl into his carriage. She gives him the address of the St. Pius I'm sorry, I don't know where that is. You're my very first passenger.
HASARI: I'm sorry, I don't know where that is. You're my very first passenger.
SCHOOL GIRL: Really. Well, I hope I bring you She gives him a sweet smile.
SCHOOL GIRL: That way, and then to the right. His moment has arrived. He looks at Ram. and thrusts his hips forward, setting off into the insanity of the traffic, eyes flicking left and right. A HORN RAILS at him and a taxi tries to run him down, calling and laugh- ing as Hasari jumps in terror.
RAM: ( calling ) Feed the police!
SCHOOL GIRL: This is my home address. Pick me up promptly at seven each morning.
HASARI: Yes, thank you, you can depend on The girl runs into the school yard, met immediately by friends. Hasari looks around at the clean, bustling school, at all the children in their crisp uniforms and a look of great yearning comes over his face.
MAX: Beef. You know cow? Minced, little salt, pepper, slap it flat like this, throw it on the grill, flip it. Now, though, he just glimpses the shiny gas tank and engine of a motorcycle around the hip of the waiter. He leans out.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Ashoka, astride his motorcycle, GUNNING the ENGINE as a boy runs out of a store with an armload of cassettes.
MAX: Put it on the grill, I'll be right WITH ASHOKA senses someone close. He turns to find an American hovering at his shoulder.
WITH ASHOKA: senses someone close. He turns to find an American hovering at his shoulder.
MAX: You know, I have to say you really don't look Jewish. I believe that's mine. He reaches for the necklace with the Hebrew letter. Ashoka recognizes Max. Looks around for help. There is Don't touch me. No one touches me.
ASHOKA: Don't touch me. No one touches me.
MAX: Max grabs Ashoka. who breaks free, and GUNS the CYCLE down a side street. Max gives chase, his aching ribs slowing him a bit.
SEVERAL CUTS: Yet, Max hangs tough, weaving like a broken field runner through the mass of bodies and vehicles. Now, suddenly, he loses Ashoka. He has to make a choice about this corner or that one. He chooses.
MAX: Oh. great. good.good timing He can't talk and breathe. He points desperately. The Cop glances where Max points, but he makes no move to give chase.
COP: May I see your passport?
MAX: Passport? I'm in the middle of a high speed chase. That guy
COP: Passport please. A crowd has begun to form. In the distance, we see a group of girls carrying cricket equipment COMING AT us.
MAX: It's in my hotel room.
COP: Passport, please, now.
MAX: Ready my lips: I do not have my passport with me at this. Ah, I see, said the blind man. The Cop obviously is doing this at Ashoka's behest. Max starts around the Cop. The Cop, however, sticks his club in Max's face; there's fire in Max's eyes. but a hand takes the Cop's stick before Max can make a big mistake.
JOAN: Well, all right, junior, so you'll owe me three.
RESUME: order with the message in an envelope, licks the flap, and puts the envelope into the mail slot.
JOAN: Oh, it was just a whim in the beginning really to try to convince them not to be so bloody passive, that they could pull themselves up on their own. I get a little money from a Swiss organization. Now it's become a bit more than I can manage.
MAX: It's got to be like trying to drill a hole in water, though.
JOAN: We just need a few more hands on this little life raft we've set afloat here.
JOAN: You know what I've come to think in my middle age, Max?
MAX: Nope, no, earthly idea. You're pretty much outta my league, There are really only three actions open to a person.
JOAN: There are really only three actions open to a person.
MAX: Only three okay. And what are To run, to spectate, to commit. Max peers at her a moment, then around the square.
JOAN: To run, to spectate, to commit. Max peers at her a moment, then around the square.
MAX: Has it occurred to you that this obsession with charity is really a flaw in your character?
JOAN: Charity! It's not charity, dear child, it's love. You're very badly twisted around, aren't you?
MAX: One of us sure as hell is. The clinic's part-time doctor, SUNIL DASGUPTA, comes out of the clinic after a very long day.
SUNIL: I'm off for home, Sister Joan. A pleasure to meet you, Dr. Loeb.
MAX: The same.
SUNIL: See you day after tomorrow.
JOAN: Good night, God bless, Doctor. Generous young man.
SQUARE: He begins to play with Manooj and several other children. Shambu leaves his post in the tea shop to join them.
MANOOJ: Are you the American doctor? Are you coming here to help us.
MAX: No, I'm the visiting American soccer star, El Max.
MANOOJ: Do you go to the cinema in America, El Max?
MAX: When I was your age two movies, plus cartoons every Saturday.
MAX: There you go, little guy. Ut what's this?
ANOTHER ANGLE: Ram and Hasari return home. Hasari can hardly walk. Shambu runs to his father, explaining excitedly.
SHAMBU: Daddy, there is the doctor from America. He saw two movies every Saturday. What's in your fist? Open, Daddy!
SHAMBU: Seeds? Why?
HASARI: So we can watch something grow.
RAM: Another few months, I'll be able to pay off the moneylender in my village and go home and open a grocery shop. All around me sacks overflowing with all kinds of dal and rice, aromatic spices, piles of vegetables. and at night, I'll lie on my back beneath the trees sniffing fresh aubergines. This beautiful picture burrows into Hasari's mind. For a moment, he goes there home, to the village.
RAM: If my wife will let me come within a hundred miles of the place where she herself resides. Ram laughs, Hasari smiles.
HASARI: Amrita, I saw a beautiful wedding sari today. Amrita is terribly embarrassed.
RAM: It was six hundred rupees only. He laughs at the impossibility of the price.
MAX: That's only 40 dollars, isn't it?
HASARI: If you have it.
MAX: I'll send it to you from America when I get home tomorrow.
HASARI: That's very generous but no, thank you.
MAX: Repayment for punching you in the You have repaid me by sharing our Joan indicates that Max should let it go. Hasari ever so carefully waters the tea box.
HASARI: You have repaid me by sharing our Joan indicates that Max should let it go. Hasari ever so carefully waters the tea box.
RAM: Doctor Big Brother, I myself would be willing to accept a gift. Could you give me five rupees in a note ten, perhaps. My ankle is badly swelled; the higher the number the more the swelling sinks. Max has to laugh.
MAX: I don't have a cent on me. I'll owe you.
RAM: How much? Now everyone's attentions is taken by a CRY from Shambu, who expels his breath, his terrified eyes directing our attention to.
ANOTHER ANGLE: a sharp intelligent, unmarked face, makes his way along on a small wheeled board, at an amazingly fast pace, ahead of SAID, a huge, mute leper. They stop some feet away. Lepers aren't often welcome. Out from behind Said steps Poomina.
POOMINA: Joan Di, my sister!
JOAN: It was Poomina who brought you to us. She has herself and her sister to support. It's all right, Poomina. Anouar, what is it? She moves to them. They're all three badly out of breath.
ANOUAR: It's Meeta! It's her time. But something is wrong. The midwives don't know what to do! Dr. Sunil, could he help, perhaps?
JOAN: Dr. Sunil isn't here.
POOMINA: Meeta will die.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Max, I wouldn't ask, but it's an emergency. A pregnancy gone awry. It's a leper. Could you have a Max is clearly thrown by the sight of the lepers.
JOAN: Max, I wouldn't ask, but it's an emergency. A pregnancy gone awry. It's a leper. Could you have a Max is clearly thrown by the sight of the lepers.
MAX: I don't have any experience with Good Christ, son, because she's a leper doesn't mean she's not built like a woman!
JOAN: Good Christ, son, because she's a leper doesn't mean she's not built like a woman!
HASARI: I can run and get Dr. Sunil.
JOAN: It's too far.
ALOKA: I could help. I've had three You can't do that. They're outcasts, they're unclean. There are murmurs of assent from the others.
RAM: You can't do that. They're outcasts, they're unclean. There are murmurs of assent from the others.
JOAN: Oh nonsense! It's not contagious! A beat everyone fixed on Max.
HASARI: You're a doctor, how can you not EXT. PATH-NIGHT that line the side of the railway tracks. Anouar propels his board with astonishing agility along the path, Said and Poomina running with him. Max, Joan, carrying a first aid bag, Aloka and Hasari following, slipping and sliding on the rough ground with its puddles and sewage.
ALOKA: Will she die? Max goes into reflex actions. Joan has opened the first aid kit. There's a flashlight among the medicine, alcohol, compresses, scissors, etc. He hands the flash- light to Aloka as.
MAX: ( to Joan ) Pull me two c.c.'s of Coramine.
MAX: Uh-oh, uh-oh, who's this coming' down the lane? Why it's is it possible way over here, in India yes, it's Mr. Choke. He comes to a stop. Everyone stares at him. Meeta moans. For a moment, he stays frozen. Aloka reaches out instinctively, wipes the sweat from his eyes. This gesture seems to free him; he looks at her, looks at the room and its expectant, trusting faces.
MAX: I'm going to have to turn it the baby. Tell her she has to relax these muscles as much as she can. He doesn't finish the sentence. Aloka speaks softly to Meeta as Max takes Meeta's arm, makes a tourniquet. Joan hands him the syringe and he injects. Hands the syringe back to Joan and begins to work at turning the Aloka takes Meeta's hand and it's a moment before we realize Aloka, with her fine hand, is holding Meeta's fingerless palm.
OUTSIDE: what's happening inside. Anouar pours tea from a pot on the small fire, offers the cup to Hasari. Hasari stares at the cup, doesn't want to be impolite, but more than that, doesn't want to touch the cup. He shakes his head, smiles. Anouar drinks off the tea.
INSIDE: out. Aloka leans forward and, with her new sari, wipes the sweat away again. Max nods thanks.
MAX: Tell her again to breathe in short little bursts now. All right! Now, tell her to push.
MAX: All right! Now, tell her to push.
MAX: Again. Yes! Again. It's coming.
OUTSIDE: door. Only Hasari remains apart, seated on a tree stump in the middle of the quad. He coughs; suppresses it.
INSIDE: I've got the head. Come on, little baby, come on, little baby. Be alive, be alive, be
MAX: I've got the head. Come on, little baby, come on, little baby. Be alive, be alive, be
MAX: We've got it, we've got it. Yeah!
JOAN: For a non-practicing doctor, that was pretty practiced.
MAX: Never been so scared in my life. It's a warm, open moment between them. But now there's the ongoing desperation of her needs.
JOAN: Max, please, won't you change your mind? We desperately need another doctor. Full-time. Think about it just give us a couple of Can't do it. Maybe you've got it in you to be a saint. I just Then what do you want? What are you going to be when you grow up? Good night, Aloka, Hasari. Joan goes inside, leaving Max, Aloka, and a very uncom- fortable Hasari alone a moment.
MAX: Can't do it. Maybe you've got it in you to be a saint. I just Then what do you want? What are you going to be when you grow up? Good night, Aloka, Hasari. Joan goes inside, leaving Max, Aloka, and a very uncom- fortable Hasari alone a moment.
JOAN: Then what do you want? What are you going to be when you grow up? Good night, Aloka, Hasari. Joan goes inside, leaving Max, Aloka, and a very uncom- fortable Hasari alone a moment.
ALOKA: Thank you for allowing me to go with you.
MAX: You could make a helluva nurse. A little smile comes over her face; no one's ever paid her that kind of compliment. She goes into Ram's hut, leaving Max and Hasari now.
HASARI: I think perhaps you are a good
THE PALS: sleep; they listen.
MAX: JOAN ( O.S. )
BETSY: I bought it, I got a refund!
MAX: But I want to go home with you.
BETSY: You want to go home with me?
MAX: Then prove it.
BETSY: Then prove it.
MAX: Good how name it.
BETSY: Buy yourself a ticket.
MAX: I would love to do that, Betsy Ilene, boy would I love to do just that, but I'm financially embarrassed at the
BETSY: Use your credit cards.
MAX: What credit cards? You know I maxed them before we left. Just lend me
BETSY: No! You won't pay me back; you never have. Oh, Max!
MAX: They're calling our flight. I want to go home with you, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Because I have a vision. It's. He's trying to woo and charm her. He mimes a kind of house shape.
MAX: I see you and me, Betsy Ilene Kahn, nibbling toward each other through a quarter pounder with cheese, chugalugging a frosty light beer great taste! Less filling! Bowling! I want to go bowling, Besty Ilene Kahn! He fires a strike through the watching crowd.
MAX: I want. Oh, my Lord Amighty, I want so many American things
BETSY: Oh, stop it! You have no earthly idea what you want, Max! And stop calling me Betsy Ilene Kahn.
MAX: Isn't that your name?
BETSY: You call me Betsy Ilene Kahn like you just met me yesterday.
MAX: What should I call you? My girl, my significant other
BETSY: Don't get cute! You get cute and I swear to God - you told me once I look like my mother!
MAX: You do so what?
BETSY: See you don't understand!
MAX: How could I possibly not understand a conversation as easy as this one, Betsy Ilene.
BETSY: I hate you!
MAX: Na ya don't.
BETSY: I stood by you for three years!
MAX: I know.
BETSY: I supported you through your You did.
MAX: You did.
BETSY: Why? It was never working. What have I been thinking all these years that you'd change? You're the most self-pitying, self-destructive, self. She can't find anything fierce enough, so she abates, tries to get it together to make a dignified exit.
BETSY: But you've taught me something, Max. You never finish anything. Well, I quit. I've found my light and I'm free of you. She heads for the gate, people parting to give her a wide berth.
MAX: Will you at least call my mother and ask her to empty my savings account and wire
BETSY: Do it yourself, Max. Call her collect. You should have called her weeks ago anyway just because she's your mother! White light, white light.! She hands her ticket and boarding pass over and she's through the gate. Max turns to find the audience fixed on him.
MAX: Guerilla theater, folks. 'All the world's a stage.' Don't know if that word reached you here yet. If you'd care to show your appreciation by a small donation. Many smiles. and several instant offers of rupees. A beat, then.
MAX: Aw, what the hell. . Swallowing his incredible embarrassment, Max takes the money.
ANOUAR: Good morning, Joan Di. Dr. Loeb said many of us could be helped; that all it would take is money for medication. Anouar hands Joan some newspaper in which something is wrapped. Joan opens the paper. Inside is a good deal of Please buy the medication for us. If we cannot come here to receive it, perhaps Dr. Loeb would come to us.
ANOUAR: Please buy the medication for us. If we cannot come here to receive it, perhaps Dr. Loeb would come to us.
JOAN: I'll be happy to buy the medication, but Dr. Loeb is not part of this endeavor, Anouar; there is only his cherished memory.
ANOUAR: Then perhaps I am having visions. Anouar's focus is up the lane. Joan follows his focus THEIR POV together. Max raises a hand in benediction, makes the sign of the cross. Max claps Hasari on the shoulder; Hasari brings his hands together and gives Max a genuinely pleased smile. Children circle and touch him, Manooj and Shambu among them.
THEIR POV: together. Max raises a hand in benediction, makes the sign of the cross. Max claps Hasari on the shoulder; Hasari brings his hands together and gives Max a genuinely pleased smile. Children circle and touch him, Manooj and Shambu among them.
MAX: Good morning! Good morning! Heckuva morning! Getting ready to practice medicine without a license, Sister Joan? You don't see me soliciting conversions, do you?
JOAN: Well, well, well, I do so love to be surprised.
MAX: Okay, for starters, pick me out someone with something easy I can heal, make me look good. Aloka, you're my assistant, let's
JOAN: Max, knock it off, give us a bit of hush. What happened?
MAX: I changed my mind.
JOAN: And I'm a bloody bathing beauty.
MAX: Okay, so I got left.
JOAN: Smart girl. So how long am I stuck with you?
MAX: Two weeks or until Mom sends me a ticket.
JOAN: Not worth the aggravation of your prattle every day. Six months and not a day less.
MAX: No way. Six weeks and that's my best offer.
JOAN: Two months and that's my final Jesus and Mary. The Lone Ranger rides again.
MAX: ( a beat ) Jesus and Mary. The Lone Ranger rides again.
JOAN: Jesus and Mary. The Lone Ranger rides again.
JOAN: Watch your Thanks got it.
MAX: Thanks got it.
SCHOOL GIRL: Hasari, where have you been? I've been waiting almost five minutes.
HASARI: I'm sorry, forgive me. It won't happen again.
SCHOOL GIRL: We're not going to school today. You're taking my mother and me to the Bara Bazar. I'm getting Oh, I am so pleased for you! Panting helplessly, Hasari smiles. as he helps the School Girl's Mother into the rickshaw.
HASARI: Oh, I am so pleased for you! Panting helplessly, Hasari smiles. as he helps the School Girl's Mother into the rickshaw.
MOTHER: Good morning, Hasari.
HASARI: Good morning, missus. Briskly, he takes up the shafts and sets off.
MOTHER: Turn right at that corner, Hasari.
HASARI: It's farther that way, missus.
MOTHER: No, not really. Turn there, Obediently, Hasari turns ( as Ramatullah, heading the other way, passes; they wave ) and Hasari pulls AWAY FROM EXT. SECOND WEDDING SHOP - DAY expensive-looking bridal shop.
SCHOOL GIRL: You must remember this shop, Hasari, when it's your daughter's time. This is the nicest in the The Mother gives the School Girl a withering look and hustles her into the shop. Hasari can just barely
ON HASARI: over his face. Suddenly a pair of fingers takes hold of his ear, twisting his face painfully.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Ashoka, with The Goonda and two henchmen, in the b.g.
ASHOKA: Not working? How will my father eat this evening?
HASARI: I was just.
ASHOKA: You have a daughter?
HASARI: Yes, Babu.
ASHOKA: Keep working. Give this to Sister Joan and your friend the doctor when you go home.
MAX: He's just malnourished. Is she giving him the milk we gave her or selling it? Aloka asks Meeta in Hindi. Meeta clearly swears she's giving the baby the milk. Aloka pushes her.
ALOKA: Not all. Most.
MAX: Tell her to give all the milk to the baby. Aloka does so as Max bounces the baby, coos to it play- fully. The baby pees all over him. Aloka translates quickly. Meeta starts apologizing. Poomina can't help laughing. Max reminds Meeta that that's once for each of the two weeks of the baby's life. Aloka soothes Meeta as she hustles her, Poomina, and the baby out, then quickly begins to wipe Max's face with a clean rag. This isn't something she's accustomed to doing, but she's doing it before she has time to think. Max finds himself conscious of her closeness to him. and then she becomes suddenly self-conscious and she backs off, ducks her head. He peeks up under.
MAX: She looks at him.
MAX: It's okay. He smiles. So does she.
SUNIL: Good night, I'll see you day after Good night, Sunil.
MAX: Good night, Sunil.
SELIMA: Very special supper for you tonight, Doctor Big Brother! Will you stay?
MAX: Wish I could, Selima, because I'm sure hungry! Sixteen hours of pestilence and misery always make me famished. I have to go with my man Anouar tonight. I've got lepers to heal!
ANOUAR: No, no, you know how patient we are. Eat, eat.
MAX: ( to Aloka ) You're not tired, are you?
ALOKA: Not if you're not. Between Hasari and Aloka, there's just a flicker of tension; evidently, this has become Max's ( and her ) normal day. But he's also worried about the note from Ashoka. Joan joins them with the Pal children.
JOAN: Well, I think we've got three very good potential scholars here. Behind the children's backs, she points at Manooj and indicates the kid's really got a head.
JOAN: Given him some time here, he'll be good enough for a proper school.
HASARI: It's more than a father could hope.
MAX: Fifteen years from now: Miami, Florida, Dr. Manooj Pal, in association with Dr. Maxwell Loeb. For a moment, Hasari is swept up in this little reverie, then remembers reality.
HASARI: ( giving her the note ) From the godfather's son. For you and the doctor.
GHATAK: Now we see Max and Joan seated on cushions before the godfather, tea in hand. Max catches a glimpse in an anteroom of several thugs with several young girls, one of whom is Poomina. She catches a glimpse of Max as she disappears past a door. A moment later, her head peeks around the door frame. She brings her hands together.
GHATAK: I understand that you're interested in expanding your clinic and free school, and that you intend to start treating lepers in the City of Joy.
JOAN: We'd like to better serve the entire community, Mr. Ghatak.
GHATAK: Of course. That's very good. Admirable. And we'd be pleased to rent you suitable space. But you must understand that certain payments will go up.
JOAN: I understand the rent would have to go up if we rent larger quarters from you, Mr. Ghatak, but why should we have to pay more More people, more potential trouble. Strangers. If I don't charge you, what will I tell But we can't afford it!
GHATAK: More people, more potential trouble. Strangers. If I don't charge you, what will I tell But we can't afford it!
JOAN: But we can't afford it!
GHATAK: Surely if you can expand, you can pay more. Joan throws up her hands how do you reason with this Am I stupid, but isn't this protection money money we're paying you to protect us from you?
MAX: Am I stupid, but isn't this protection money money we're paying you to protect us from you?
GHATAK: We live in chaotic times, Miss Bethel, Doctor. I control the City of Joy and maintain it as a model of harmony. It's a miracle, but a very fragile miracle.
MAX: And how are we threatening your I admire your courage in choosing to work in such a violent place, Miss Bethel.
GHATAK: I admire your courage in choosing to work in such a violent place, Miss Bethel.
GHATAK: Doctor, do you like our music?
MAX: Well, I can't say I've developed a craving for it yet.
GHATAK: It's difficult to appreciate what we don't understand, isn't it? Let me put it another way: The world is a terrible place. Only the ruthless prevail. My son will make the arrangements with you. One of the thugs helps the godfather outside, where, in the b.g., we see him listening to his music and pottering in his garden. As Max and Joan turn, Max finds himself face to face with Ashoka, who wears Max's necklace and chai. There's a long pause as the two of them take the other's measure.
MAX: ( to Ashoka ) I like your taste in neckwear.
ASHOKA: The entire package we're proposing will cost you three thousand rupees a month. Joan is taken aback by the sum.
JOAN: If we pay you that, we won't have any money for supplies.
ASHOKA: I'm told you're very resourceful.
MAX: I think I see a solution. May I? What if we were to work out a profit-sharing arrangement? We give you a share of our net profit.
ASHOKA: How do you expect to make a profit off of lepers and the poor, Doctor?
MAX: Beats the hell outta me, asshole. But you've obviously found a way. The question would seem to be whether Ashoka will have Max killed here or outside the house. His eyes on Max, Ashoka puts the cigarette out against the back of his hand. and smiles at Max.
JOAN: Have you gone right off your rocker!? These people don't have a sense of humor. Are you trying to get yourself killed?
MAX: I don't think so. but with me, any duplicity is possible. He tickles her; she knocks his hands away; he tickles her Stop it, you. you. you nudnick! He doesn't stop, and as she storms off down the street, he stays right on her, tickling away.
JOAN: Stop it, you. you. you nudnick! He doesn't stop, and as she storms off down the street, he stays right on her, tickling away.
ANOTHER ANGLE: children home. As he looks inside, he notices.
HASARI'S POV: catches Amrita's eyes. Amrita is sweetly embarrassed to find her father staring at her.
ON HASARI: minded moment to moment of his various obligations.
ASHOKA: Who gave you your rickshaw?
HASARI: The Godfather.
ASHOKA: Who provides the food you eat?
HASARI: The Godfather.
ASHOKA: Remember: Loyalty. The Godfather is at least civilized. The son is vicious. Remember the last elections the Molotov coctails, the blows with iron bars. They'll throw us out. We won't be able to find anyone else to rent to us. We'll just have to agree to pay what he Saladdin's right. Neither nature nor the people with the power have any conscience. We have to
SALADDIN: The Godfather is at least civilized. The son is vicious. Remember the last elections the Molotov coctails, the blows with iron bars. They'll throw us out. We won't be able to find anyone else to rent to us. We'll just have to agree to pay what he Saladdin's right. Neither nature nor the people with the power have any conscience. We have to A sigh escapes Surya. He shakes his head. Eyes flick at him.
MEHBOUB: Saladdin's right. Neither nature nor the people with the power have any conscience. We have to A sigh escapes Surya. He shakes his head. Eyes flick at him.
ASHISH: What do you say, Doctor Big I think we must try to break the Godfather's hold on us. This is startling and is met with a babble of cautious agreement and dispute.
SUNIL: I think we must try to break the Godfather's hold on us. This is startling and is met with a babble of cautious agreement and dispute.
SUNIL: Please, hear me out. But I think we have to be very cautious.
MAX: How the hell do you proceed with caution against these people? You can't. You have to risk You try to negotiate with these people, you make compromises with them, they'll eat you alive. Stand up against them now and they'll fold. I guarantee it. Underneath, they're cowards, they got no guts. We show them we're strong and the'll just move on to easier We? You have an airplane ticket. Still, he's clearly piqued a lot of support.
ASHISH: We? You have an airplane ticket. Still, he's clearly piqued a lot of support.
SUNIL: You know, Max, this is not American gangster television.
SALADDIN: Yes, if you're wrong, you don't have to be here.
MAX: I'm not wrong. You bow your heads, you plead with your Gods to do what you won't do yourselves. You put up with this nightmare as if there were no choice. I'm telling you, if you don't stand up to that little pimple face now, he'll own you for the rest of your lives. Everyone stares at him. Many of them want to buy his commitment. There's another large sigh from Surya. Aloka and Hasari's eyes bang off of each other, she silently urging him to speak. He's deeply conflicted and deeply frightened.
ANOUAR: Even though I am invisible to some of you and I don't have a complete set of legs to stand on, I stand with the Doctor Big Brother. Maybe nature doesn't have a conscience or those with the power, but don't Said, the giant mute, mades an unintelligible sound in his throat, but clearly he's agreeing with Anouar.
MARGARETA: I agree with Anouar and Max Daddah. I think it's worth the chance. Silence. until Aloka and Hasari's meet again and, out of his terrible fear and conflict, he says very shyly.
HASARI: Is it permitted to speak? There are quick nods around the room. With great difficulty, Hasari says his piece.
HASARI: I want my children to be educated and cared for; this is our home, we have never had such friends. But many of us owe a great debt to the Godfather. He is strong and could kill us. But we must choose. I trust my Big Brother. I say we must stand up. There's still dissension, but somewhat more support. Said makes a fierce, unintelligible supportive sound. Surya sighs again. Eyes flick at the old man.
SUNIL: Sister Joan, what do you think, Well, I think Max has hit on the heart of what we're trying to build here: a self-help society. Each of us has to decide for himself. As for me, I suppose I think, really, that if the bastards are going to suck us dry, I'd like to get in a couple of good left- handers before I turn the other But who will rent to us! Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building I have a property I will rent you for two hundred rupees a month, and not a rupee less. As for protection. you are on your own. Many of the faces are uncertain Hasari's notable among MONTAGE - INT./EXT. COWSHEDS - DAY bustling activity on the new clinic begins. Cleaning the place. Debris being torn out, hurled into a pile in the street. B ) Said, with the strength of three men, holds up a heavy beam while Hasari tries to secure it. Max, hot, smelly, and hating the place, stands in the middle of the room, wishing he were elsewhere. The beams starts to slip. Max leaps to Hasari's side. C ) We see that Max and Hasari are thrown together again in some carpentering task in uneasy camaraderie. A finger pokes Max on the back. He turns to find Poomina holding out two cups of tea. D ) The whole group shares a meal, prepared under the direction of Selima, though the lepers remain separate from the normals. Anouar leads the lepers in singing a song. Joan and Margareta pick it up, as do several other of the normals. E ) Equipment from the old school/clinic being moved from the square down here. F ) Max and Aloka do one of those dances where two people with arms loaded try to go around each other. Finally he says he'll stand still and she should go around him. They both laugh. Hasari watches. G ) As Max puts medicine into a cabinet, Ram peeks in, nods his approval, "helpfully" passes Max something Max can reach just fine himself, shows Max an enormous hole in his shorts and hits Max for ten rupees. H ) A small truck carrying a charitable organization's logo on the side is being unloaded of powdered milk and various other things.
JOAN: Well, I think Max has hit on the heart of what we're trying to build here: a self-help society. Each of us has to decide for himself. As for me, I suppose I think, really, that if the bastards are going to suck us dry, I'd like to get in a couple of good left- handers before I turn the other But who will rent to us! Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building I have a property I will rent you for two hundred rupees a month, and not a rupee less. As for protection. you are on your own. Many of the faces are uncertain Hasari's notable among MONTAGE - INT./EXT. COWSHEDS - DAY bustling activity on the new clinic begins. Cleaning the place. Debris being torn out, hurled into a pile in the street. B ) Said, with the strength of three men, holds up a heavy beam while Hasari tries to secure it. Max, hot, smelly, and hating the place, stands in the middle of the room, wishing he were elsewhere. The beams starts to slip. Max leaps to Hasari's side. C ) We see that Max and Hasari are thrown together again in some carpentering task in uneasy camaraderie. A finger pokes Max on the back. He turns to find Poomina holding out two cups of tea. D ) The whole group shares a meal, prepared under the direction of Selima, though the lepers remain separate from the normals. Anouar leads the lepers in singing a song. Joan and Margareta pick it up, as do several other of the normals. E ) Equipment from the old school/clinic being moved from the square down here. F ) Max and Aloka do one of those dances where two people with arms loaded try to go around each other. Finally he says he'll stand still and she should go around him. They both laugh. Hasari watches. G ) As Max puts medicine into a cabinet, Ram peeks in, nods his approval, "helpfully" passes Max something Max can reach just fine himself, shows Max an enormous hole in his shorts and hits Max for ten rupees. H ) A small truck carrying a charitable organization's logo on the side is being unloaded of powdered milk and various other things.
SALLADIN: But who will rent to us! Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building I have a property I will rent you for two hundred rupees a month, and not a rupee less. As for protection. you are on your own. Many of the faces are uncertain Hasari's notable among MONTAGE - INT./EXT. COWSHEDS - DAY bustling activity on the new clinic begins. Cleaning the place. Debris being torn out, hurled into a pile in the street. B ) Said, with the strength of three men, holds up a heavy beam while Hasari tries to secure it. Max, hot, smelly, and hating the place, stands in the middle of the room, wishing he were elsewhere. The beams starts to slip. Max leaps to Hasari's side. C ) We see that Max and Hasari are thrown together again in some carpentering task in uneasy camaraderie. A finger pokes Max on the back. He turns to find Poomina holding out two cups of tea. D ) The whole group shares a meal, prepared under the direction of Selima, though the lepers remain separate from the normals. Anouar leads the lepers in singing a song. Joan and Margareta pick it up, as do several other of the normals. E ) Equipment from the old school/clinic being moved from the square down here. F ) Max and Aloka do one of those dances where two people with arms loaded try to go around each other. Finally he says he'll stand still and she should go around him. They both laugh. Hasari watches. G ) As Max puts medicine into a cabinet, Ram peeks in, nods his approval, "helpfully" passes Max something Max can reach just fine himself, shows Max an enormous hole in his shorts and hits Max for ten rupees. H ) A small truck carrying a charitable organization's logo on the side is being unloaded of powdered milk and various other things.
SURYA: I have a property I will rent you for two hundred rupees a month, and not a rupee less. As for protection. you are on your own. Many of the faces are uncertain Hasari's notable among MONTAGE - INT./EXT. COWSHEDS - DAY bustling activity on the new clinic begins. Cleaning the place. Debris being torn out, hurled into a pile in the street. B ) Said, with the strength of three men, holds up a heavy beam while Hasari tries to secure it. Max, hot, smelly, and hating the place, stands in the middle of the room, wishing he were elsewhere. The beams starts to slip. Max leaps to Hasari's side. C ) We see that Max and Hasari are thrown together again in some carpentering task in uneasy camaraderie. A finger pokes Max on the back. He turns to find Poomina holding out two cups of tea. D ) The whole group shares a meal, prepared under the direction of Selima, though the lepers remain separate from the normals. Anouar leads the lepers in singing a song. Joan and Margareta pick it up, as do several other of the normals. E ) Equipment from the old school/clinic being moved from the square down here. F ) Max and Aloka do one of those dances where two people with arms loaded try to go around each other. Finally he says he'll stand still and she should go around him. They both laugh. Hasari watches. G ) As Max puts medicine into a cabinet, Ram peeks in, nods his approval, "helpfully" passes Max something Max can reach just fine himself, shows Max an enormous hole in his shorts and hits Max for ten rupees. H ) A small truck carrying a charitable organization's logo on the side is being unloaded of powdered milk and various other things.
MANOOJ: Doctor Big Brother, aren't you going to smoke your evening cigar? Max points at his trumpet, continues playing.
MANOOJ: Max indicates his pocket. Manooj takes out a cigar and a clip. Clips the cigar, holds it out to Max, who indi- cates Manooj should light it, and keeps playing. Manooj looks at Hasari, who nods. Shambu holds a match to it. Everyone watches as if this were a major event. Manooj takes a puff, chokes, offers the cigar to Mehboub, who takes it, puffs, passes it. Everyone relaxes, enjoys the peacefulness of the smoking and the aroma wafting upward. Ram taps at Max's elbow.
RAM: It has come to me tonight to write a letter to my wife. Ram produces a mangled one piece letter envelope.
RAM: ( CONTINUED )
MAX: Okay shott.
RAM: Yes what is the word that word when land is watered. with canals?
MAX: Yes, yes, that word, I want that word in the letter. Max looks at him, nods, waits. Ram stares at Max; waits.
RAM: Yes, yes, that word, I want that word in the letter. Max looks at him, nods, waits. Ram stares at Max; waits.
MAX: What would you like to say to your wife?
RAM: What would you like to say to your wife?
MAX: What would you like to say to your wife?
RAM: I don't know, Max Daddah. If I knew what to say to my wife, I'd never have left home. Everybody laughs, though Ram's remark hits Max on a deeper level. Manooj slides in beside him.
MANOOJ: Why do you have to go home, Doctor Because he doesn't live here, Manooj. This is not his home. A look between Max and Aloka; Hasari's eyes flicking at both of them. as Aloka's eyes come to Hasari. The cigar reaches Ram. As Max starts to write, Ram takes a large puff and blows a huge ring out of his mouth. We FOLLOW it.
ALOKA: Because he doesn't live here, Manooj. This is not his home. A look between Max and Aloka; Hasari's eyes flicking at both of them. as Aloka's eyes come to Hasari. The cigar reaches Ram. As Max starts to write, Ram takes a large puff and blows a huge ring out of his mouth. We FOLLOW it.
ABOVE: This as we:
MAX: On no! Lepers! Lepers in my Sshh! Doctor Big Brother, please, we are pretending not to be lepers.
ANOUAR: Sshh! Doctor Big Brother, please, we are pretending not to be lepers.
MAX: Oh, oh, I didn't get the concept of course, not lepers. I think you're going to fool a lot of people. I have only one question: Why are you here?
ANOUAR: We've come to take you to the dispensary in grand style on this special day, haven't we, Hasari?
HASARI: Na, I'll just trot alongside Hasari.
MAX: Na, I'll just trot alongside Hasari.
HASARI: No, please, get in. Max climbs into the rickshaw beside the two lepers and Hasari pulls away.
ANOUAR: Meeta's very excited by this ride through Calcutta. You see, she's never been sightseeing before. Meeta, of course, is blind. Max, Hasari, Anouar laugh.
MAX: You're incorrigible, Anouar.
ANOUAR: Yes, yes, I know, thank you very
ALLEYWAY: You taking that to the clinic? You like it there? And they love your smile, don't
ASHOKA: You taking that to the clinic? You like it there? And they love your smile, don't
LEPER WOMAN: It is too beautiful to believe.
GOONDA: Good morning, Sister to the poor.
JOAN: Yes, Mr. Bhose?
GOONDA: Those people aren't coming into this neighborhood.
JOAN: They are going to be treated at the dispensary. You have no right to stop them.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Go ahead, Aloka, take them inside. The Goonda puts his hand on Aloka. The policeman in the b.g. keep their distance.
JOAN: Go ahead, Aloka, take them inside. The Goonda puts his hand on Aloka. The policeman in the b.g. keep their distance.
JOAN: Take your hands off her, you Joan is seized by a sudden fury and grabs the Goonda. He grabs her much harder. Said growls and pushes forward. Several thugs turn, step in to neutralize him. Joan elbows the Goonda and tires to westle free of him. As a reflex he raises his hand. And as he does, it's ANOTHER ANGLE slings the Goonda against the side of a truck.
ANOTHER ANGLE: slings the Goonda against the side of a truck.
GOONDA: That was a mistake, Doctor.
MAX: The mistake's yours, putz. Get these people inside. Aloka starts forward, leading the lepers. She's stopped by a sudden blow from the Goonda's stick across her shoulders, knocking her to the ground, bleeding from the Hasari bolts for his wife, gets caught up in the melee. Max swings around on the Goonda and for the first time we realize how strong he is, and that he knows how to box. The Goonda goes down and violence erupts. Anouar is chopping at the legs of one of the thugs working on Said. The massive Said tears free and starts to beat the crap out of the two thugs holding him. The noise brings everyone out of the square, those lined up at the clinic, the children from the school. Sunil comes flying out of the clinic. A stampede of those waiting outside the dispensary and those normally in the crowded alley ensues. Shanta runs inside for help. Shopkeepers barricade their shop One of the thugs pours gasoline over Anouar and lights a match. Hasari kneels beside Aloka when he sees the match ignite the tiny leper. Without thinking, Hasari hurls himself on top of Anouar, rolling him in the dirt and against his own body to put out the flames. Joan shouts, demanding the violence stop. She's hit from behind; she decides talk isn't going to do it. She grabs a piece of lumber and starts to fight.
ANOTHER ANGLE: with more thugs, these with Molotov cocktails and pick- axes, ready to raze the clinic and school and the surrounding neighborhood. Sunil drags Mehboub inside. People chant: "White Monkeys, go home! White Monkeys, go home! No lepers here! No lepers here!" The thugs cock their iron bars and bricks and Molotov cocktails. Max picks up an iron bar of his own and starts for Ashoka. Suddenly, there's a DETONATION followed by a BLAST of air so fierce, Max is thrown to the ground. A bottle of GASOLINE has EXPLODED just behind him. He's enveloped in smoke. An assailant bears down on Joan with a cutlass. As the assailant is about to strike, Hasari seizes the attacker and hurls him backward. Ashish steps in and slashes the assailant with his own weapon, startling, even repelling From all over the lane, young fighters have come and joined the fray, not bothering to choose sides but merely enjoying the release. Hasari lunges for a woman under attack by a boy, arriving too late to stop the boy from plunging his knife into the woman's belly. Hasari fights his way to the woman, but she staggers into the mob. Max knocks down one of the thugs only to have another hand grasp his shoulder. He turns, fist cocked to find Poomina, her hands holding her face together. Slowly, she takes hands away. The sides of her face have been laid open. Max sweeps her up in his arms, heads for the clinic.
MAX: Oh, little girl, little girl. Joan is suddenly beside Ashoka.
JOAN: We'll pay! All right then, so by all means, protect us! Ashoka raises a hand, The Goonda blows a whistle, and the fighting stops as suddenly as it began. The com- batants are breathing heavily. There is silence but for the groans and cries of the wounded and grieving.
ASHOKA: In a world such as ours, everyone needs protection. For the fee we discussed, from this day forward, I can assure you nothing like this will happen again.
ASHOKA: You. I warned you about the company you keep. He REVS his MOTORCYCLE and SCREECHES away, leaving Hasari staring after him in his dust.
ALOKA: Will she. Her face, will it.
MAX: If she's very careful and doesn't do anything to open the wound, the scarring will be minimal. Do you understand? You can't. You have to stay here. You make her stay here.
JOAN: I'll try.
MAX: Don't goddamn try, Joan! Goddamn do it! Poomina peers through her pain at Max, his hands putting her back together.
MAX: ( a litany ) I hate this place, I hate this place, I hate this place.
COURTYARD: his face. The Goonda is slouched near the table, smoking a cigarette and fiddling with a thin switch. ( It's dif- ficult for him to show Ashoka the respect his inherited position gives him. ) The Goonda has a bruise under one eye from his altercation in the City of Joy yesterday. The air is filled with the MUFFLED SOUNDS OF the STREET. FROM here, we can see the evermore enfeebled godfather in his "throne room," wrapped in a cashmere, listening to the radio. Ashoka looks up, stares impassively at
ASHOKA: Well. What have you got to say?
ANOTHER ANGLE: I told them that your father provides us with a great deal and
HASARI: I told them that your father provides us with a great deal and
ASHOKA: From this minute, you are off the list! You will leave your rickshaw here. where it will be reserved for a man who deserves our trust.
HASARI: Please, Babu, this is as if the ground has opened up. I have to speak to Mr. Ghatak!
ASHOKA: My father's ill! You are speaking to me!
HASARI: I have a family!
ASHOKA: The decision is made. I have made it. Now get out before I have Mr. Bhose break your legs. He gives Hasari's ear a vicious twist and slams his head against the table.
MAX: I just don't. I don't want to. I don't want to care! I don't want to care this much! I just don't want to be invested in you people. In people! I became a goddamn doctor because my goddamn father wanted me to be a goddamn doctor because he was a goddamn doctor! He was the goddamn king of doctors! It's too goddamn hard! Out of breath, out of words, Joan reaches out and takes Max to her, brings him beside her on the cot. Beneath the "Raft of Medusa," she sits with an arm around Max, as if he were her son.
JOAN: Not everyone's cut out for this. You did the best you could. Better than many. It's all right.
MAX: I didn't do the best I could! I did what I always do! I shot my big mouth off and did a half-assed job. And what I want to do now is I want to go back to America and make money and live a life without entanglements and demands and people hanging on me.
JOAN: ( a beat ) You know, the fact is from the minute we're born we're shipwrecked. Some see that as a lifetime of drowning, of fear, others only to endure, but to triumph. It's all in the individual spirit, isn't it?
MAX: Got it: To run, to spectate, to Running spectator.
JOAN: Then, by all means, go home, Max, and go with my blessing and my eternal friendship. The candlelight flickers against them as they sit side by side. Neither speaks.
HASARI: They took away my rickshaw. Aloka's hand flies to her mouth. Hasari peers at Max with his drunken gaze. It's a terrible moment for Max, So what do you want me to do about it get it back for you? Max takes away a step. Stops.
MAX: So what do you want me to do about it get it back for you? Max takes away a step. Stops.
MAX: I'm sorry. I'm going home. Because this isn't my fight. I got one person to look after Hasari stares at Max. On the roof, the children listen. At the tea shop, the late-night talkers listen.
MAX: All right, I'm running out, okay? Because I'm a coward, this is me, this is what I do, I get in over my head, I let people down, I run.
HASARI: But I trusted you.
MAX: Well, that was your goddamn Max walks away, leaving Hasari desolate. Aloka comes to I don't know how I'm going to pay the rent, how we're going to eat.
HASARI: I don't know how I'm going to pay the rent, how we're going to eat.
ALOKA: We have what is saved for Amrita's The thought of using the dowry is yet another awful blow to Hasari's hopes.
HASARI: The children must leave the school; they'll have to work. And you will not have anything to do with the clinic or those people Ram joins them.
RAM: What I earn is yours, too.
HASARI: You can't support all of us. You have a family in your village, too.
ANOTHER ANGLE: body, his face again broken out in perspiration.
HASARI: Take more.
HASARI: Take more.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Seeing a potential victim, he swoops in.
GANGOOLY: Not well, brother?
HASARI: Still stealing from refugees? Gangooly looks at Hasari, recognizes him, and gives him an amazing smile.
GANGOOLY: Well, yes, I remember you, of course hello! I am delighted to see you yes. And tell me immediately, please your little family, your beautiful children, everyone eats, yes. Come, have a cup of tea or a little something stronger, we must celebrate. Gangooly starts to move, to position himself for a get- away. Hasari blocks his egress, unsmiling.
GANGOOLY: Ah, well, you're angry at me, yes, I wondered if that was still on your mind I am full of regret about that, yes, even a little tormented. What can I say? I have the spirit of an eagle trapped in the body of a crow.
HASARI: I'm touched.
GANGOOLY: My friend, I am lame and I am poor. Does that mean that I shouldn't survive? Huh? When a man is struggling in a rough sea, he clutches onto what he can or he drowns. You don't look so well.
HASARI: I lost my rickshaw. Gangooly gives Hasari an appraising look for a moment, Ach! I have an offer. No, listen! Shiva be my witness, you must at least think about this. Please, I can help. Or my name is not Mr. Gangooly.
GANGOOLY: Ach! I have an offer. No, listen! Shiva be my witness, you must at least think about this. Please, I can help. Or my name is not Mr. Gangooly.
HASARI: Which, fortunately, it is.
GANGOOLY: Remove the children from the school no, why? When you, the father, can make a small sacrifice. Nature has foreseen your plight. For she has given you two eyes, yes, and two kidneys. But. To live, you have need of one only. I have a friend who sold his kidney this one and now believe me, this is the truth he lives in a brick home. which he owns. That smile.
GANGOOLY: Of course, take some time, think about it. People all over the world, anxiously waiting, willing to pay. 15,000 rupees for a kidney. 25,000 for an eye. Gangooly winks, peers at Hasari with a single eye, and INT./EXT. TAXI - ROAD TO AIRPORT - DAY Aloka, also with their thoughts. Joan gazes out the window of the taxi. Max looks at the back of Joan's head a moment, then looks at Aloka, who sits between them. She deflects his eyes forward.
JOAN: Hasari has forbid her to have anything more to do with us. He'd be very angry if he knew she was seeing you off. Max looks at Joan. Looks out the window.
MAX: This is for Poomina. When I get He thrusts the money on Joan and Max offers his hand; she goes through the hand to embrace Max. Then Max and Aloka look at each other.
ALOKA: You did good things. Thank you for coming to our
JOAN: It's not like he's royalty or anything, so I'm not persuaded we have to wait for the plane to actually take off.
ALOKA: No. We should go.
MAX: What were those three choices
MAX: I need Aloka at the clinic. All right, they, the patients, need her. She's a good nurse. Come on, man, this is between you and me. Why take the kids out of school, why punish your wife? Hasari holds his anger in; he moves to a mat and lies down, his back to Max. But Max doesn't go.
MAX: I have a little money, I can get it from the States.
HASARI: It's not a question of money. We'll survive on our own. That's it. Hasari lies with his back to Max. After some moments of silence, Aloka indicates Max should go. And he does. After another moment.
ALOKA: Maybe he's right. The clinic is for everyone and if I am needed Hasari bolts up, a look of anger on his face we've never No! I'm your husband and you'll do as I say! Unless, of course, you've become an American wife and then you'll do as you please!
HASARI: No! I'm your husband and you'll do as I say! Unless, of course, you've become an American wife and then you'll do as you please!
HASARI: Stay away from them. They are not part of us. They will only be good to you as long as you please them. The children, Aloka are frozen, she very close to tears. Hasari lies back down, again turns his back on them.
MAX: Hand me the scissors, please. Helpfully Said hands him the tweezers.
MAX: Scissors, scissors. He demonstrates. Said fumbles through the instruments, picking up the scissors by the ends.
MAX: Not that end No, that's fine, thanks, I've got it.
ANOUAR: Max Daddah, you are finished? Follow me. Anouar takes off down the lane and disappears quickly into a little building, Max following.
MAX: You didn't steal this.
RAMATULLAH: The police, Sahib, they stole it. We stole it from them.
MAX: How much?
MAX: I'd like to show you something. Just take a minute. A beat as Hasari fixes Max with an empty stare and the family waits to see if Hasari will respond.
MAX: Go ahead. Go on.
THE RICKSHAW: I'm good with my hands. You're good with yours. What do you say? Hasari looks at Max, part resentful, part touched.
MAX: I'm good with my hands. You're good with yours. What do you say? Hasari looks at Max, part resentful, part touched.
HASARI: If I were to go on the street with this machine, I would end up in a gutter with my throat cut.
MAX: Well, it's yours if you want it. You know the license, the cops, all that can be fixed. You'll own this it'll have nothing to do with the Godfather.
HASARI: Doctor Daddah, I'm just a small man. Don't try to tempt me again with big thoughts. Hasari starts to leave. Max blocks his way.
MAX: You didn't want me to quit. Well, I came back.
HASARI: But can you be trusted?
MAX: I hope so. Hasari can see the hope and desire in Max's face. After a moment, Max steps aside. Hasari bends his head and makes off. Leaving Max and a small sigh of EXT. LATRINES - FOUNTAIN - ALOKA - DAY ( DAWN ) tain. The process is extremely sensual, though there is not even a glimpse of her nakedness as she moves her clothing around, cleansing this area, then that. She glances up to see.
ANOTHER ANGLE: naturally, he brings his hands together in the Indian salutation. He carries several bottles of distilled water, a large value pack of bar soap, and a carton of medical supplies. As he passes, his eyes hook on Aloka's. He lifts a hand in greeting. After a moment, she ducks her head. He turns and continues on coming face to face with Ram, an enormous smile on his face. With him, Hasari. He glances at his wife in the water.
MAX: ( to Hasari ) Going to look for work?
RAM: Yes, he is. Ram has a small coughing fit.
MAX: Are you taking your medicine?
RAM: Yes, yes, but look at this. He points at the wheel of his rickshaw; the rim is cracked. Scornfully, Hasari walks on. Max and Ram glance after him. Max digs out several rupees. Ram takes them and goes. Max looks after the two men as they disappear. When he turns.
ANOTHER ANGLE: word, they start walking side by side toward the square. It's several seconds before she says.
ALOKA: He's very proud. They walk on in silence two friends, separated by a EXT. DOCKS - FROM THE GATE - DAY locked out, turned away without work.
MAX: You must have had a good doctor. Still no running, jumping, picking up anything heavy. And you stay here. You're going to help Sister Joan and you're going to school. Do you understand? A beat, Poomina nods. But now a look of abject fear comes over her face. The Goonda stands in the doorway. Max begins singing "Sweet Little Sixteen." The Goodna stares impassively at Max.
THE GOONDA: Time to collect the rent, Sister.
JOAN: Of course. Come with me, please. Joan leaves, followed by The Goonda. Max works care- fully at the fine line of scabbing on Poomina's scar. but then something takes his attention.
HASARI: Close the door! Max is very surprised but, needless to say, pleased. He looks at the rickshaw, looks at Hasari.
HASARI: Close the door. The Godfather has more eyes than a pineapple. Max quickly closes the door. The half light is broken by thin beams of light that dance with dust. Hasari studies Max a moment, then moves to put the first wheel on. Instinctively, Manooj moves to his side, takes hold of the rickshaw so Hasari can slip the wheel on. Hasari nods and goes for the other wheel. Manooj moves around to the other side, hefts the carcass. Hasari slips on the second wheel. Hasari looks at Max. Max brings his hands together and starts to go.
HASARI: I was saying to Manooj that if a man bows down too many times, there will come a day when he will no longer be able to stand upright. The two men look at each other. and then Hasari gets on with his work.
MAX: I promised Manooj and Shambu I'd take them to the movies. Is it all right?
HASARI: ( a beat ) If a man makes a promise.
MAX: ( whispering ) Thanks, guys. Who wants to go for more peanuts?
MANOOJ: I can't decide if I want to be Kumar Kapur or a doctor.
MAX: Ha ha! You can be both! Manooj Pal, swashbuckling physician!
MANOOJ: You're so much fun, El Max. I wish my daddy were as much fun as Max stops the fight, takes Manooj by the shoulders.
MAX: I wish my father loved me like your father loves you. Your dad's a very special man. And now, en As the battle continues, the bright beams of a truck come at them.
MAX: Time out, men. Off the street till this truck passes.
MAX: I can't do anything here. He's got a compound fracture, he hemorrhaging. We've got to get to a hospital now!
JOAN: You'll never get a taxi at this EXT STREET - HASARI'S FEET - DAY ( EARLY EVENING ) urging people out of his way. Max runs alongside Hasari. Aloka sits on the seat with Shambu, whose quiet moaning fills her ears. Blood drips down the rickshaw.
MAX: They'll admit him, but we have to pay for the blood. I gave him all I had. He wants more. Do you have Sister Joan gave me this.
ALOKA: Sister Joan gave me this.
MAX: We haven't got any more!
MAX: If this child dies while you stand here, I'll kill you.
MAX: Now, I need an X-ray room and I need an O.R. nurse.
ATTENDANT: Not possible. You can't give care, you're an American. You must be an Indian doctor.
MAX: Then take me to one! As Max takes flight with the Attendant, Aloka strokes Shambu and Hasari hovers. We CLOSE IN ON Shambu's inanimate face and HOLD a moment.
ANOTHER ANGLE: tow. Almost a kid, he's been up for days. But he's going to help.
INTERN: This way, please. Max scoops Shambu up and rushes down the corridor behind the Intern, leaving Hasari and Aloka looking after him. His arm comes around her shoulders.
HASARI: You're my wife, Aloka, you and my children are all my wealth. But if Max Daddah and Big Sister Joan have need of you, you may go to Max comes out of the hospital. The two Pals stare at We pinned his leg. Couple of months, he'll be better than ever. They want to keep him today. We're a good team. Gimme five. He smiles, holds out a palm for them to slap. They look at the palm, unsure what this means. Yet, each takes Max's hand.
MAX: We pinned his leg. Couple of months, he'll be better than ever. They want to keep him today. We're a good team. Gimme five. He smiles, holds out a palm for them to slap. They look at the palm, unsure what this means. Yet, each takes Max's hand.
JOAN: I don't think it was an accident. I think they were aiming for Max. So, what we have to ask ourselves is whether his presence is endangering all of us.
ANOUAR: Even from my low vantage point, I know this: It's the son. He's Max Daddah is our friend. If they're trying to harm him, then they're trying to harm all of us. We must stand by him as one.
HASARI: Max Daddah is our friend. If they're trying to harm him, then they're trying to harm all of us. We must stand by him as one.
RAM: Doctor Daddah, please, very important, only one moment.
MAX: This is going to cost me every rupee I didn't make today. Ram thrusts an envelope into Max's hand.
MAX: A letter from your wife. Ram nods nervously. Max looks at the postmark as he slices it open with a finger.
MAX: This is postmarked six weeks ago.
RAM: ( CONTINUED )
MAX: So, what have you been doing incubating it?
RAM: I was afraid. Ram waits, his hands twisting each other.
MAX: 'My dear husband.'
RAM: Oh that's very hopeful so far!
MAX: 'Your words brought tears of joy to my arid eyes.'
RAM: Oh, I'm in love! My words brought tears to her arid eyes! What does that mean arid? Manooj throws his hand up.
MANOOJ: I know! Dry.
MAX: Correct. Her eyes were dry, your letter irrigated them.
RAM: He snatches the letter, crushes it to his heart. Notices the finish work on the rickshaw.
CHOMOTKAR: This is a puka nasgar. What a curse that you can't use it.
HASARI: I'm going on the streets tomorrow. This gets everyone's attention. The pullers shake their heads, they're worried for him.
MAX: Listen. I don't want you to think I'm crazy, but I don't think that truck was an accident.
HASARI: I'm going to speak to his father.
MAX: Can I go with you? I'll go with you. Can I go with you if I shut A beat. and Hasari gives him a small nod.
ANOTHER ANGLE: rickshaw. The Goonda jumps out of the car, comes threateningly at Hasari.
HASARI: Babu, please, I beg you, hear my words! As the Goonda is about to land on Hasari we hear a The Goonda backs off. The Godfather waves Hasari and Max close. Hasari brings his gleaming rickshaw to the window of the car, Max at his shoulder.
GHATAK: The Goonda backs off. The Godfather waves Hasari and Max close. Hasari brings his gleaming rickshaw to the window of the car, Max at his shoulder.
HASARI: May I say first, Babu, I wish you long life and good health.
GHATAK: Acha! They take me now to the scientists. They stick needles in me, take pictures of my insides, study them, and then tell me what I know.
HASARI: When you gave me work, I swore I would be as your youngest brother. Your son thinks I have been disloyal. He took my rickshaw. With my friend, I have remade this one. I beg you to let me go again onto the streets. I have my family. The old man looks at the rickshaw, at the obvious care that went into its renovation, at this unlikely team of refurbishers. He reaches a shaking hand out toward a shaft. Hasari brings it close. The old man rubs the It is very beautiful.
GHATAK: It is very beautiful.
HASARI: Thank you, Babu.
GHATAK: If I may say, it has an allure.
HASARI: An allure, Babu thank you. The Godfather stares at Hasari, then at Max.
GHATAK: The world is chaos. We struggle to build something permanent, then our bodies betray us, our sons betray us. Yes, you may take your rickshaw out. If you can face up to my son. The Goonda gets back into the car and the car pulls away and we are left with Hasari and Max as moment.
HASARI: If a man dies and he's not burned, what do you think becomes of his The manager turns his palms up, continues chewing. Hasari stares through the window at the row of skeletons.
HASARI: I must provide for my family.
GANGOOLY: Oh, it's a noble fate. If indeed your wheel ceases to turn, you will help educate somewhere in this great world a fine doctor. Hasari bends to the contract and laboriously signs his EXT. GODFATHER'S HOUSE - DAY dozen rickshaws. Among the passersby, we see umbrellas, as the people on the street try to combat the incredible What's going on?
HASARI: What's going on?
CHOMOTKAR: The Godfather ill! The son is raising the rent! Ashoka is on his front steps with a loudspeaker before a growing crowd of pullers. He's backed up by the Goonda and a dozen of his thugs. The loudspeaker lifts Ashoka's voice above the anger.
ASHOKA: Do you know how much it costs to change the spoke in a wheel? Or how much baksheesh I have to pay the police? Impulsively, Hasari moves forward. Cries from pullers: "Who will be the victims of this madness? You?" "Hell no!" "You don't need the six rupees each old crate brings you per day to fill your belly! For us, it means death!" The street is so packed with rickshaw and pullers now that cars can't get through. A chorus of HORNS HONK; drivers scream.
RAMATULLAH: We haven't been breaking our backs between the shafts of our rickshaws in order to weep for
CHOMOTKAR: The only thing that matters is the bundle of rupees we take to the munshi each month to feed and to answer the daily needs of our
RASSOUL: Listn to me! Listen now! Listen to me! Friends! I ask you to vote for an unlimited strike. Inkalabad zindabad! Long live the revolution! Rickshaw Workers Union
ASHOKA: That's what I thought. All right, get to work! Customers are waiting!
ON HASARI: garhi and grabs the microphone from Ashoka. Police arrive in vans.
HASARI: Friends! The Godfather at least is a caring man! This one, though, the son We helped this man! We gave him a job, a place to live! This is how he shows his gratitude. Get on the streets now! Or turn in your machines!
ASHOKA: We helped this man! We gave him a job, a place to live! This is how he shows his gratitude. Get on the streets now! Or turn in your machines!
HASARI: Friends don't! If we stand
HASARI: The life of a rickshaw puller is not one a man would choose if he had a choice. Our feet blister and burn up from the boiling asphalt, our noses burn from the fumes of countless motor cars and buses, our backs curve permanently from the loads we carry hour after hour, day after day. But I am proud to be one of the human horses who carry my countryman from place to place and I am thankful for the opportunity to make a living. But I will not keep silent anymore and I will not be cheated and threatened anymore. Life is hard enough. No more.
JUDGE: ( when it's silent ) This man will be permitted to use his rickshaw without let or hindrance. And I will make a restraining order against Mr.
JUDGE: I haven't finished these proceedings. For his part in this disturbance, I fine the defendant 50 rupees.
HASARI: Fifty rupees, Your Honor? Pay at this time or spend seven days in jail! Seven days in jail will cost him far more than fifty rupees. As he reaches into his pocket for his screw of money, a hand suddenly protrudes into the cage through the bars.
JUDGE: Pay at this time or spend seven days in jail! Seven days in jail will cost him far more than fifty rupees. As he reaches into his pocket for his screw of money, a hand suddenly protrudes into the cage through the bars.
RAMATULLAH: And now another hand with several rupees reaches through.
RASSOUL: Now a dozen voices call his name and a dozen hands reach through the bars with rupees clutched in their fists and press the money into Hasari's hands. The Judge, Max and Aloka, and certainly Ashoka watch this in amazement. The Judge bangs his gavel. Max turns, shoots a little finger gun and winks at Ashoka.
HASARI: Really a boyfriend, Amrita?
AMRITA: Amrita whacks Manooj.
MANOOJ: Yes, she does. His name is Subash Ghosh. His father owns the workshop.
HASARI: Is there someone you care about?
HASARI: Then I must speak to his father and I must complete your dowry.
HASARI: You will make people sigh at how beautiful you are. And I shall drop tears of joy.
RAM: At my wedding I became so frightened, my father gave me things to drink to calm me down. I went out to piss and fell asleep under the village tree. When I woke I thought it was the tree I'd married. I still love that tree.
ON MAX: in fear. Hands yanks him out of bed, slam him up against the wall, then hurtle him across the room and into:
BATHROOM: underwater and he's held there struggling.
ASHOKA: Go home, Doctor. Before he can respond, he's slammed down into the tub of water again and held there until it seems his lungs will explode. Then he's dumped backward, gasping for breath.
CLINIC: and through the gate.
JOAN: What's happened?
MAX: Ashoka ordered me to go home. Well, I've come home. A beat. She steps aside, he steps in, and the door closes him safely inside.
CHOMOTKAR: What a joy it is to survey this disaster! We will all make a The monsoon is the great Durga's gift to the human horse! Hasari glances at Ram, who isn't a part of the joking.
HASARI: The monsoon is the great Durga's gift to the human horse! Hasari glances at Ram, who isn't a part of the joking.
HASARI: What's the matter?
RAM: I'm wet and I'm cold. Your daughter is getting married. Time is passing. I want to go home to my wife. Chomotkar touches Hasari, nods across the street. There, we see the Goonda and two thugs.
RAMATULLAH: It's Hasari's turn. He can't stay to talk with Ram now. He has to go.
MARWARI #4: How much to the market?
HASARI: Eight rupees.
MARWARI #4: What! I won't pay it!
HASARI: Who else needs a ride? I am available at a price! Several others crowd and shove toward him.
MARWARI #4: No! Take me I'll pay, let's The price just went up! Ten rupees! In advance. The Marwari hesitates only as long as it takes him to dig in his soaking wet pants and to slap the bills into Hasari's hand and climb aboard. Hasari sets out with great difficulty and greater determination through the floodwaters, flicking his eyes at the Goonda as he EXT. WEDDING SHOP - DAY money down in front of the shop owner and then hustling back into the rain and taking up his shafts. We WATCH the owner look after him with a touch of disdain as he comes into the window and takes down the beautiful green and gold sari.
HASARI: The price just went up! Ten rupees! In advance. The Marwari hesitates only as long as it takes him to dig in his soaking wet pants and to slap the bills into Hasari's hand and climb aboard. Hasari sets out with great difficulty and greater determination through the floodwaters, flicking his eyes at the Goonda as he EXT. WEDDING SHOP - DAY money down in front of the shop owner and then hustling back into the rain and taking up his shafts. We WATCH the owner look after him with a touch of disdain as he comes into the window and takes down the beautiful green and gold sari.
HASARI: How can I help?
ANOUAR: I think Aloka would have a gentler touch than you, Max Daddah. Maybe she should perform this surgery on her own.
MAX: Last time you told me you were more than two women could manage.
ANOUAR: Yes, but given a choice between one and none, I will accept the one. Okay, you ought to be good for another few days. Send in the next patient.
MAX: Okay, you ought to be good for another few days. Send in the next patient.
LOW ANGLE: But almost simultaneously, their hands freeze short of touching. Several months ago, Max might have tried to kiss her; now, though, there is friendship and affection. FROM here, we see a pair of bare feet. We COME WITH Max and Aloka UP.
ANOTHER ANGLE: hands come forward, holding his parrot, with a broken wing. He puts the parrot on the examining table.
HASARI: Here! I'm here!
HASARI: Yes, that's correct. He looks at his brothers, on either side. They look at And I a partner in the workshop where your daughter is employed. Were you aware of that?
MR. GHOSH: And I a partner in the workshop where your daughter is employed. Were you aware of that?
HASARI: Yes, yes, I was, my daughter told me, thank you.
MR. GHOSH: Yes, well then, perhaps you can tell me why I would permit my son to marry your daughter. Mr. Ghosh raises his palms. It's all over as far as he's concerned.
UNCLE #1: Just a moment, please. The brothers huddle, whisper just loudly enough for Hasari to hear.
UNCLE #1: Are you saying there's no way you'd consider this match? Mr. Ghosh shakes his head, shrugs his palms.
UNCLE #1: Perhaps some inducement? Would that be of any help?
MR. GHOSH: ( considering this ) What could he possibly offer?
UNCLE #1: Probably nothing. But perhaps, in fairness, we should find out. Mr. Ghosh shrugs. The huddle breaks. All five men stare at Hasari.
MAX: ( shouting to the My dear friends, it's just occurred to me what inspired me to stay here.
MARGARETA: What's that, Doctor Big Brother?
MAX: The opportunity to acquire waterfront property at a reasonable Joan begins to laugh; the others don't get it, query each other as to what's funny about that.
JOAN: I hate to admit it, junior, but that was actually quite witty. She whacks him on the shoulder with a wet, muddy paw.
JOAN: Ut-nobody laugh; it's a natural disaster we have guests. Everyone turns to.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Manubai and Ravi, their car parked at the entryway to the clinic. A big puddle separates them.
MAX: I'd throw my cape down, but I'm all out of dry capes. He sloshes through the water to them, wiping his muddy hands on his pants. He offers a semi-clean hand to each in turn.
MAX: It's very nice to see you. Both of you.
RAVI: We heard you were still here. Vijay wanted to send some things.
MAX: Shall we unload the car?
RAVI: Yes, yes, by all means. Max whistles, indicates the car. People come and start unloading it, Ravi showing the way, leaving Max and Manubai alone a moment, Aloka flicking her eyes at the two of them.
MANUBAI: I'm surprised. I really didn't think you'd stick it out.
MAX: People grow older; sometimes they even grow up. He smiles a sweet smile at her. She smiles back at him.
ARISTOTLE JOHN: Where can we take them? We can't take them back to the clinic. No one will put up with it.
SALADDIN: We can't let them drown, can we? Eh, Max Daddah?
HASARI: It's too deep!
ANOTHER ANGLE: in water; Hasari and Rassoul have a door on their shoulders; on top of the door, a sick leper woman. Max is lifting one child, then another onto the door. The two pullers make their way slowly toward the mud ON MUD BANK
MEETA: Max Daddah!
ANOUAR: Max Daddah!
MAX: We're here! We're here!
ON OTHERS: the maelstrom. He, too, disappears. After some moments, Hasari surfaces, spitting the filth out of his mouth. He dives again, comes up somewhere else. Dives a third time. Is down. Is down. Is down. Then suddenly bursts out of the filth, dragging the unconscious form of Max Loeb into the air. More people have gathered. Cries of:
OTHERS: It's the doctor. Save Doctor Big
MAX: Oh, Jesus, the guy went to sleep when he was supposed to be working? I gotta get up He tries to get up. Joan pushes him back down.
JOAN: Sshh, sshh, sshh! No heroics, junior. Lay back. You're all All right. Yeah, I am, I'm all right. He is a little delirious. The boys come close, kneel at his side, instinctively reach out to him.
MAX: All right. Yeah, I am, I'm all right. He is a little delirious. The boys come close, kneel at his side, instinctively reach out to him.
MAX: Want you guys to know something. About me. Wanted to be the world's greatest heart surgeon, just one better than my dad. Just one. First time I'm the lead surgeon on a case, the main guy, I choke. Froze. The chief made me step aside. My teacher. Had to take over for me. Went into radiology. Photography. Had to have somethin' easy. No pressure. Wasn't too nuts about myself. Hasari reaches out and touches Max, telling him with a touch that it's all right. He stares up through bleary eyes at all of them with utterly open love. Amrita holds out a small gift to him: It's a banana leaf, holding a small scoop of rice and surrounded by little decorative leaves.
MAX: You people. You. I love you guys.
HASARI: I can offer no more than I've offered! No more! All right, I'll add two dhotis, two vests, and a punjabi. But that's all. Mr. Ghosh lights up a bidi, looks at his brothers, wrinkles his brows at Hasari.
MR. GHOSH: That's all? Did he say that's My daughter's qualities will make up for what is lacking.
HASARI: My daughter's qualities will make up for what is lacking.
SUBASH'S FATHER: Well, it won't do! I am firm in requiring for my exceptional son the bicycle, 1000 repees. and one ounce of gold.
HASARI: That's robbery! The child of a rajah might be worth that, and I'm not even sure of that! We linger on Shambu a moment.
ANOTHER ANGLE: SISTER CECILIA
SISTER CECILIA: Well, indeed I think Sister Joan is right we've got a prospect here. We'll start you off with a few classes; if that works out, we'll make a proper student of you.
MAX: Hey, come on, don't do this.
VOICE: Well, what's the problem here? They turn, Ashoka. Behind him, the Goonda.
ASHOKA: You've become very brave of late, haven't you?
MAX: Don't do this.
ASHOKA: Oh, I do what I please. You see, my father's dead, I'm in charge now. So you will get off my streets, you will leave my country, and that clinic and school will close.
MAX: My father was weak. He let you and your European friend give these little people ideas. It's You can't do this! He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up, when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees.
ASHOKA: My father was weak. He let you and your European friend give these little people ideas. It's You can't do this! He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up, when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees.
MAX: You can't do this! He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up, when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees.
MAX: Jesus Christ. His hand comes away from the back of his head with blood. He tries to rise and is hit again.
HASARI: ( to the kids ) Get back! Stay back!
ASHOKA: No, no, come forward. Come. Ashoka glides toward the petrified Amrita. The Goonda remains unmoving, watchful. Ashoka puts out his hand with its rings, and strokes Amrita's cheek.
ASHOKA: What a little woman already, hey?
HASARI: Please, don't touch her, Babu.
ASHOKA: What did you say?
HASARI: I said, Please, don't touch her. Hasari glances over his shoulder, his eyes bouncing off the Goonda's impassive face. Now, the knife comes out of Ashoka's pocket, snaps open, glints in the light.
ASHOKA: She's going to give someone a lot of enjoyment. Yes.
ASHOKA: ( to the Goonda ) He said 'please' didn't he? 'Please, don't touch her?'
ASHOKA: Bhose, help me! Hasari unloads a punch into Ashoka's face; Ashoka's nose pours blood; he starts to whimper. He clutches Hasari hard to him. Holds him. Hasari struggles, slams his palm into Ashoka's chin, sending Ashoka to the ground, sending the knife skidding across the ground. Hasari grabs the knife, straddles Ashoka, about to kill. But he can't do it.
HASARI: Life is hard enough. No more. Leave us alone. Hasari backs off, leans against a wall, stares down at Ashoka, his hands in tight against his body. Manooj and Shambu stare at their father in awe. Shambu sees something on the ground where the first blow was delivered to Ashoka's chest. Everyone has moved slightly to one side. He bends and closes his fist around something. The Goonda steps between Ashoka and Max and Hasari.
GOONDA: You won't be bothered again. A look from the Goonda and the Thugs vanish, leaving Ashoka cowering in a doorway on his knees.
MAX: Why don't you go on home. I'll stay with him.
THE ROOM: his family and Max, Aloka sitting close to the bed, the Children on the bed beside their father, and Max standing A beat, the family and Max tightly bound together. And now we hear the dim sounds of RICKSHAW BELLS.
HASARI: A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. And you have to remember that you can never give up. We pray that life will bless us, that we will be kings, with possessions and money that we can rule over all around us. But it's a mist; the only thing that makes it possible to endure life is our love, one for the other.
HASARI: I was dreaming the sound of rickshaw bells, and now I hear
HASARI: Are they here for me?
HASARI: A city so big. When we arrived, we didn't have a place to live, a
OUTSIDE: CLOSE ON WINDOW bends close.
SHAMBU: ( whispering ) Is my father going to die? Get serious.
MAX: Get serious.
HASARI: Get serious! I've agreed to the bicycle, I've agreed to the 1000 rupees! I can go no further. I have nothing more to give!
MAX: How's it going?
RAM: All that stands between them now is the ounce of gold. Max Daddah, Joan Di is she a good What do you mean?
MAX: What do you mean?
RAM: She read this letter to me. But I think she must have read it wrong. She said my wife writes that irrigation has come to our But that's great.
MAX: But that's great.
RAM: But it means I should go home to my wife.
MAX: I thought that's why we've been writing all these letters.
RAM: Yes, of course, I love her from here, yes; but, what if I go home and find I don't love her from
SHAMBU: Daddy needs gold, right? Do you think this is pretend gold or real?
SHAMBU: Do you think this is pretend gold or real?
ANOTHER ANGLE: her. Father and daughter are alone. He hands her the flower and adjusts her veil tenderly.
HASARI: You never did belong to me. You were only lent to me by God until you marry and continue the wheel of life. Amrita stares at her loving father and slowly her arms come up around his neck, the flower against his curved back. Tears fill Hasari's eyes, but a smile graces his EXT. SQUARE - DAY - EARLY EVENING strikes up, accompanied by singing and shouting. Tiny lights have been strung over the street. We see Max and Manubai. Margareta and a group of children. Joan with Poomina. Anour, Meeta, Said. Everyone who's become part of the family is present.
HASARI: I would be pleased if you would stand with me in the place of honor to the right of my daughter. Deeply touched, Max nods. and the two men step for- ward. as Subash is motioned forward by the Pujari. Subash sits beside Amrita.
THE CEREMONY: proceeds with the winding of the red thread. Hasari looks on with unspeakable pride, Max beside him. We see the faces of all our family again: Aloka, Manooj and Shambu, Joan, Poomina, Surya, Selima, Aristotle John, THE WHEEL circle the flame. as we PULL BACK AND UP. Now we see the clinic and school and the surrounding area, the alleys full of people and activity. As we continue to PULL BACK, we see the entirety of the City of Joy and then beyond Calcutta, its teeming streets life con- tinuing as the sun sets against an infinite sky and we
THE WHEEL: circle the flame. as we PULL BACK AND UP. Now we see the clinic and school and the surrounding area, the alleys full of people and activity. As we continue to PULL BACK, we see the entirety of the City of Joy and then beyond Calcutta, its teeming streets life con- tinuing as the sun sets against an infinite sky and we
THE END: Writers : Gerald Brach Roland Joffe
