CLIFFHANGER: Written by Michael France
FRANK: Wait a minute there's Hal. And his date.
INSIDE HELICOPTER: Frank lowers his glasses Maggie struggles with the wind.
MAGGIE: How do they look?
HAL: Excuse me I know you're my salvation, and all do you think you could rescue us before your smoke
GABE: Maybe you could tell me why I am rescuing you.
HAL: Basically I've fallen down, and I can't get up.
GABE: ( into radio ) Rescue One have located helpless climber, please prepare idiot line for transport, over
GABE: who precariously swings out from the ledge to grab it the wire is just out of reach. Hal grabs the radio.
HAL: Rescue One please remind me to tell you about the time I hauled your hero here down Mt. Huntington on my back, Hal, if I hear that story one more time, I'm making you limp down the entire three thousand feet, over
GABE: ( to Susan ) This guy showing you a good time?
THE HELICOPTER: swings over across to the facing mountain Maggie lands the copter, in spite of the winds, on a small plateau. Frank gets out to secure the wire there's now a lifeline spanning the ON THE LEDGE Gabe finishes anchoring the line in the rock he extinguishes his cigarette in the snow, and naturally, pockets the butt. Hal, propped up against the wall, expertly rigs a seat harness around his legs Susan helps him get part of it around his splint, and Gabe clips it to the line.
GABE: Now, remember keep your arms and legs within the vehicle at all Fuck you
HAL: ( laughing ) Fuck you
HAL: lets go of the overhead line and claps his hands to his face in mock horror he quickly whizzes down the last thirty feet of the line, where Frank catches him and pulls him out. Hal gets out of the harness, checks every stitch of it, signals thumbs-up, and sends it back.
THE LEDGE: Gabe, retrieves the harness on a small attachment line, and gives Susan a reassuring smile, but she's still, sensibly, very scared. Gabe recovers the harness, rigs Susan into it, and meticulously re-checks it.
GABE: ( sees she's afraid ) Did he tell you about the time he almost made it up Everest?
SUSAN: He said you gave him a bad oxygen mask
GABE: Well, if he's bored you with that bullshit, then this has to be the best part of a bad date. Right?
GABE: ( scared but tough )
SUSAN: ( scared but tough )
SUSAN: I can't
GABE: Yes you can. You can do it. Don't look down. The whole way across, don't look down. Look at me. Just keep looking at me and you'll be okay.
GABE: ( beat ) I have always depended on the kindness of Rangers.
SUSAN: ( beat ) I have always depended on the kindness of Rangers.
HAL: is helpless, and can only watch as
SUSAN: too scared to breathe, dangles on the remaining strand of what used to be the harness she sways from the wind and the jerk of her own weight, her grip loosens
GABE: moves back from the ledge.
GABE: ( loud, in control ) Hold on. I'm coming out to get you.
SUSAN: is in trouble the bobbing of the line from Gabe's weight and the winds are making her lose her grip even more
GABE: urgently pulls himself along the line faster, trying not to shake the line. As he gets closer and closer to a terrified Susan, his eyes lock on hers
GABE: Keep looking at me. Hold on
WIDER ANGLE: Gabe is only ten feet away from
SUSAN: who stares at Gabe, petrified this focus is helping, but her strength is just about gone
ON GABE: who knows it and pulls himself the rest of the way, a little faster, almost bridging the gap
ON SUSAN: staring desperately at Gabe, holding on
SUSAN: deliberately lets go of the main line and launches himself at Susan
GABE: deliberately lets go of the main line and launches himself at Susan
THEIR HANDS: ANGLE ON BOTH Gabe's three foot safety line pulls taut, testing the limits of the line above as it yanks him back
GABE: who can only look down, swaying helplessly on the wire as Susan's SCREAM starts
GABE: twists from his safety line, spinning helplessly he wants to, but can't, shut his eyes
STEWARDESS: Take this. Afraid of flying?
GABE: INT. TERMINAL - DAY Gabe, with no luggage, is at the small airport's only car rental counter, doing the paperwork for a RENTAL AGENT.
RENTAL AGENT: Any size, any color, any model.
GABE: Any size, any color, any model.
RENTAL AGENT: How long will you be needing it?
GABE: ( flat ) Just under six hours.
MAGGIE: who is standing off to the side.
MAGGIE: I knew you'd be coming by. Today.
MAGGIE: If you're in that much of a hurry, why don't you ride with me?
GABE: This is new.
MAGGIE: It's a thermal scope picks up body heat of lost hikers
GABE: Still find the dead ones the old fashioned way, I guess.
MAGGIE: You could have said goodbye.
GABE: ( shakes head ) If I did, I'd have to listen to you tell me one more time that it wasn't my fault.
MAGGIE: ( angry ) Today especially today you get to hear it again. The harness clip broke. Cold stress one in a million equipment failure. You and Hal could have checked it from then till now and it still would have ( beat ) You did everything right
GABE: If I did everything right, Susan Collins would still be alive.
THE HELICOPTER: whizzes on to the Ranger station a small building by an old country road. Not much activity outside of some ROOKIE CLIMBERS working out on a CLIMBING PRACTICE WALL. Maggie starts to land the copter, and as she does
GABE: Do you really believe all that? That it wasn't our fault?
MAGGIE: ( turns to Gabe ) Yes. Yes, I do. I'm not sure what I wish more, Maggie. That you meant what you said, just now or that it were really true then.
GABE: I'm not sure what I wish more, Maggie. That you meant what you said, just now or that it were really true then.
HAL: Maggie, where the hell have you been? I've got two climbers out
HAL: Brett and Evan are up there again to jump off the spur. Their wives called twice. I want you in the air and I want them found before the storm system moves in. Christ. You're in charge of Rescue There was a vacancy. Maybe you heard about it. The last guy lost his nerve and lit out of town.
GABE: Christ. You're in charge of Rescue There was a vacancy. Maybe you heard about it. The last guy lost his nerve and lit out of town.
HAL: There was a vacancy. Maybe you heard about it. The last guy lost his nerve and lit out of town.
GABE: Well, you're a better man than I am, Hal. Nothing rattles you.
FRANK: ( steering Gabe away ) Gabe! Long time, son why don't you come meet some of the new guys
GABE: Good idea. Say, Hal? Why don't you come with me so we can show these rookies how to death-rig a woman properly? Take the Bronco to where you're going. I've already been. Then go back to wherever it is you like to hide. And stay there.
HAL: Take the Bronco to where you're going. I've already been. Then go back to wherever it is you like to hide. And stay there.
THE PAPER: which is moved by mechanical arm to a SLICER that razors the bills apart it's moving too fast for us to see the denomination the cut bills are separated by
THE BILLS: are something a banker could work a lifetime without seeing, but are real nonetheless $5,000 bills, banded here in hundreds. The band is put back in the growing stack by
RICHARD TRAVERS: mid-thirties, a tough, imposing Treasury agent he regards the fortune piling up in front of him with only cold, professional interest. Travers is flanked by a trio of equally tough TREASURY AGENTS he turns to flunky DAVIS ( 20s ). It's clear who's in charge of protecting the money here, and who's in charge of counting it.
TRAVERS: Tell Wright the San Francisco shipment is ready.
DAVID: ( phone already out ) Right away, Mr. Travers.
THE OFFICE: of WALTER WRIGHT ( 50s ), comptroller of currency his demeanor suggests he's in control, and used to keeping it that As Wright gets up from his desk, though, we hear in the outer
WRIGHT: ( into phone ) Good good. I'll be right down. You can't go in there
MATHESON: Walter Wright? Matheson. FBI. We need to talk.
PILOT: We'll be fueled and ready in ten minutes, Mr. Travers.
TRAVERS: ( an order ) Be ready in five.
MATHESON: ( flashes badge ) Matheson. FBI.
TRAVERS: ( looking down at it ) Your parents must be proud. ( to Wright ) What the fuck is this about?
WRIGHT: Small problem with the shipment, Tell him what you just told me.
MATHESON: We got word that somebody's been observing your currency shipments this load, the $5,000s over the last three deliveries.
TRAVERS: ( laughs ) There isn't a hell of a lot anyone can do but observe. ( beat ) This is the most protected shipment we've got and the most useless for a thief. Those bills aren't in circulation. You think five thousand dollar bills are easy to pass? Who the fuck would try?
MATHESON: This guy might.
TRAVERS: Who is he?
MATHERS: ( patient ) His name's Eric Qualen. One of the East German spies who got shut out by the reunification. The CIA issued an inter-agency warning about him right after the wall came down. He's got nowhere to go and nothing to lose. He's also got the international connections to get rid of bills like these and he's probably desperate enough to try for them. Fifty million bucks buys a lot of sanctuary.
TRAVERS: Could you get to the part where I'm supposed to care?
MATHESON: ( shows him more photos ) We had two agents monitoring him. These two Gleason and Quinones. Their last report said he was going to try to take this shipment.
TRAVERS: ( turning away ) Thanks for the tip. But I've got work to do.
MATHESON: ( stopping him ) Did I say "last" report? I think I did. I mean last fucking report. These guys have vanished.
TRAVERS: You have my sympathy, but There's a reason we do things this way, all right? Armored cars can be hijacked. Trains can be derailed. But nobody can get to us in flight. The only time this is on the ground is at the mint, or on the Presidio runway in San Francisco. Either way, someone would have to shoot his way past a couple of thousand guards.
TRAVERS: If you're worried about an inside job, forget it. I checked the plane from top to bottom an hour ago. And these three are my best against. Even if one of them did go skydiving, they wouldn't get far. Each case has an electronic tracer with a range of one hundred miles.
TRAVERS: ( facing down Matheson ) I haven't lost a bill in eight years. And I'm not scrubbing this shipment because you scare easily.
MATHESON: ( an easy smile ) Who said anything about stopping the ( beat ) I've been tracking Qualen for almost a year. If he pulls something, I want to be in on the party.
WRIGHT: This is cleared from the top, Travers. Matheson will accompany you on the flight to San Francisco. Show him every professional courtesy.
INSIDE HELICOPTER: Visibility is near zero. Maggie keys the radio.
MAGGIE: Rescue One to base, over.
MAGGIE: Negative, Hal storm's already moving in I can't see them, and winds are too strong to stay up here over
MAGGIE: I don't think he's planning a long visit, Hal. Rescue One heading back to base, over and out.
THE HELICOPTER: banks a 180 to fly back we can see over the horizon that the storm is moving in fast.
EVAN: ( freezing ) Way to check the weather, Brett.
BRETT: ( shivering yet macho ) Hey. If it were easy, it wouldn't be worth d-doing.
AGENT: Just enjoy the view, huh? Relax. I mean, what could happen in the air?
TRAVERS: ( to other agents ) Stay put! Don't panic, goddammit!
THE COCKPIT: where the pilot seems nervous, but oddly, not frightened.
PILOT: He's coming in too slow.
TRAVERS: ( cool ) No we're going too fast, and we're too high up. Push flaps forward twenty degrees and drop to five thousand
THE CABIN: Matheson is out of his seat, pistol drawn. Seems a little puny under the circumstances.
MATHESON: ( to agent ) You got any rifles?
AGENT: Forward compartment left side
MATHESON: backs up in horror and he sees Travers calmly coming out of the cockpit. Rattled, Matheson pulls his gun on Travers. Travers looks dumbfounded then angry.
TRAVERS: What the hell are you doing
MATHESON: Checked the plane from top to bottom, huh? You fucker Put your hands behind your head! It's
TRAVERS: Calm down give the gun to me
MATHESON: ( to other agents ) There's a couple of dead bodies in the front compartment they're FBI He's losing it
TRAVERS: He's losing it
MATHESON: Goddamn it! Don't you see what he's doing! He's hijacking the fucking Don't make me shoot you!
TRAVERS: Don't make me laugh.
TRAVERS: ( to mouthpiece ) Move into position.
GABE: brushes some of the falling snow away from the marker. He lays down his flowers and pauses for a moment then gets into the Bronco and drives away.
TRAVERS: is also wired to a safety line by his own jet's open door.
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) More more keep it coming
TRAVERS: takes it in and clips it to a ring at the top of the jet's
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) Locked on. Move into lateral position.
KRISTEL: Moving into lateral position.
PILOT: We're right on the edge of the storm let's move it.
PILOT: This isn't going to work Wright will suspect something.
TRAVERS: So what. He'll sift though a plane that went down in a storm find enough pulverized bone for six men heroically killed in the line of and just enough of the right kind of ash.
TRAVERS: We get twenty-one gun funerals and they write off fifty million. It's perfect, as long as you hold the plane steady so concentrate.
QUALEN: ( into radio ) Travers hurry it up.
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) On my way.
THE LED: starts counting down from 2:00 1:59 1:58
TRAVERS: That charge is going to blow both engines the plane'll go down like a rock, so clip yourself on to the end of the cable with the money as soon as I get over. And make sure you bring the right
TRAVERS: ( into the headset ) Dip the plane. I'm coming over.
QUALEN'S JET: where he's pulled in and unclipped by Qualen.
QUALEN: ( shouting over the wind ) Why didn't you send the money over?
TRAVERS: ( shouting too ) Somehow, I didn't think you'd have waited for me if I'd sent it first.
THE LED: counts down 0:38 0:37 0:38
THE AGENTS: Matheson's eyes open he's not dead yet.
THE PILOT: drops out of the plane, flailing if he's screaming, we can't hear it over the HOWLING of the storm
TRAVERS: ( shouting to cockpit ) Get underneath the jet! The cases will slide over!
THE LED: counts down 0:02 0:01 0:00 and
TRAVERS: ( shouting ) Lower! Get underneath it!
KRISTEL: It's dragging us down! Disconnect the
BOTH JETS: dive down faster at an ever steeper angle, over the edge of the Colorado mountain range
THE CABIN: Kynette and Ryan grab Qualen and Travers to separate them all strap in, because
THE PLANE: is going down it just tops the edge of a precipice and hits the ground level
THE PLANE: sleds down at an angle, skipping over rocks through tearing off a wing
THE COCKPIT: Kristel rides the stick only out of habit nothing she does is going to matter now
THE PLANE: rips downhill through a wooded area like a runaway train the second wing is sheared off by trees
THE PLANE: wrenches to a sudden halt, the fuselage intact.
KRISTEL: So much for phase one. Now what?
TRAVERS: Now we call the police.
HAL: Look I know there's a storm, but that wasn't thunder.
FRANK: ( unconcerned ) Hal, when you've been in this line as long as I have
HAL: Rocky Mountain Rescue come in,
KRISTEL: Downed charter flight dead, seven seriously wounded, Acknowledged, mayday. What's your Don't know position unknown landed on top of some mountain only visual bearing is a facing cylinder-type formation over
HAL: Acknowledged, mayday. What's your Don't know position unknown landed on top of some mountain only visual bearing is a facing cylinder-type formation over
HAL: Got to be Comb Bluff. Acknowledged, mayday. Winds are too strong for us to get a copter up there can you and your passengers make it through the storm? Over
HAL: Mayday come in, mayday
QUALEN: Not bad. The insulin was a nice touch.
GABE: pulls into the driveway and puts the Bronco in park. He doesn't cut the engine, because he's not sure whether he's going in or not. Finally he cuts the ignition.
GABE: No answer. Gabe takes a look around the living room. His face tells us, without a doubt, this used to be his home. Gabe moves inside, pausing at a mantle. Two framed photos Gabe and Maggie sleeping together in a hammock, bolted to a sheer wall over a 2,000 foot drop. Gabe, Hal and Maggie, all younger, all sporting drunken grins, in a mountain cave. Gabe smiles for the first time today at this memory a BANGING at the back of the cabin shakes him out of it.
MAGGIE: Hey there
GABE: ( beat ) Could you introduce us?
MAGGIE: Sure. Gabe Walker this is A27. A27 Gabe.
GABE: Not the tag what do you call Her. I call her Lucky.
MAGGIE: Her. I call her Lucky.
GABE: ( bends down, eyes wound ) ( Maggie nods ) They got the mother and left this one behind. Too small to make a decent trophy, I guess.
MAGGIE: They got the mother and left this one behind. Too small to make a decent trophy, I guess.
GABE: About four months, right? Christ it must have been just about his I mean her first flight
MAGGIE: Time to change the dressing.
GABE: You can't do that alone
MAGGIE: I've had to learn. She trust me
GABE: I'm making her nervous You hold her, I'll do the dressing. Got some fight in her that's good. What happened to Dave?
GABE: Got some fight in her that's good. What happened to Dave?
MAGGIE: The usual. Flew off never calls, never writes
MAGGIE: I'm glad to see you, Gabe. But I kind of wish you hadn't come. I was almost used to you being gone. Why are you here?
GABE: ( pauses ) I thought I came back to see if I'd learned to live with it. Well, big surprise. Coming back just tore me open all over again, like it all happened yesterday instead of a year ago. Nothing's changed. Including the way I feel about you. ( beat ) I didn't realize it till I saw you at the airport. But I came back for you, Does that mean you're going to stay?
MAGGIE: Does that mean you're going to stay?
GABE: No. Not here. I want you come with me. Start over, somewhere else.
MAGGIE: ( incredulous ) You come back after being gone a year, and you expect me to ( beat ) You don't live here any more, Gabe. Your choice, remember? But this is my home. I'm not leaving. You can stay with me, or you can go alone. It's still your choice.
OUTSIDE SHED: Furious, Gabe heads out after Hal.
GABE: What the hell do you want?
HAL: ( beat ) I need your help. A plane's gone down on Comb Bluff. This storm would blow a copter all over the place but we can climb up to it.
GABE: ( beat ) Talk to somebody who's still on the payroll. You've got a half dozen new who couldn't climb that wall now if there were stairs cut into it. But you've soloed it.
HAL: who couldn't climb that wall now if there were stairs cut into it. But you've soloed it.
GABE: During the summer. On a bet.
HAL: This is a little more important than a bet. Just a few injured people with no first aid or shelter, camping in a zero degree blizzard. They'll be ice sculptures by tomorrow morning.
GABE: ( shakes his head ) Maybe you missed the headlines but I don't do rescues any more. They're bad for my conscience. ( beat ) Fuck this one up on your own.
HAL: Play it again, Gabe, about how we killed her. I was there too, remember?
GABE: ( hot ) Not like I was, pal her fingers brushed mine on the way down
HAL: ( right back ) and I was the one who had to deal with her family when you fucking tore out of town. ( takes a breath ) We lost her. Whatever anybody says about cold stress and the clip, you and I have to live with that. But right now, there are some more people who need our help, and they shouldn't die too just because you've got a problem keeping the past in the past.
GABE: I don't want the responsibility.
HAL: Walk away and you are responsible. They'll die. I can't do this alone. You know what else, Gabe? You can go anywhere you want, but if you don't do this, now, you're going to be stuck on that goddamn ledge for the rest of your life.
HAL: ( indicating gun ) That thing's dead weight. Completely useless for an ice climb.
GABE: Just backup.
GABE: ( not a challenge ) I'll lead. I left a few bolts last time I climbed this I think I can find some of them.
HAL: Save the rope for when it gets tough. That bet was for you to free climb the wall.
GABE: ( further up ) Tell you what, Hal if we're still alive tomorrow morning, I'll give you the twenty bucks back, okay?
GABE: ( shouting down )
HAL: is beside and slightly below Gabe at the other end of the fifty foot rope. Hal cautiously pulls himself along the line to the first piton as is standard for a climb, he pulls out the piton, then moves on to the second but up above
ROCKSLIDE: that bounces down the wall
GABE: hugs the ice wall, making himself as flat as possible
GABE: ( shouting down )
HAL: flattens too as rocks bounce past the second anchoring piton LOOSENS as it is struck by a falling rock Hal nervously eyes the last piton between him and Gabe
HAL: tries to stay flat, but one boulder painfully CLIPS him on the shoulder, knocking him from his perch Hal falls
GABE: who's seen everything we have, quickly reaches to the piton he's just anchored, and removes the carabiner clip
GABE: has the bolt gun out. He rapidly hooks the rope's carabiner clip to the chambered bolt, and FIRES it at a solid rock ledge above him
GABE: lashes the rope to his shoulder, bracing for the coming impact by lodging his feet in the ice
GABE: is almost dragged down by the jolt he painfully takes most of the impact in his shoulders the shock forces his feet through an ice ledge but the rope, bolted to the rock above, has held. Barely.
GABE: ( shaken, voice gone ) ( shouts this time )
HAL: now somewhat recovered, steadies himself.
HAL: ( breathless too ) You're sure this time
HAL: ( looking up at gun ) Don't say it
GABE: ( wheezing too ) It's kind of hard to resist
RYAN: lowers the binoculars, and keys an ear button on the headset radio he's wearing, sending a beep.
TRAVERS: ( into mouthpiece ) Have they arrived? ( two beeps in response ) Good. Return to the plane and cover your tracks.
QUALEN: ( to others ) Get ready.
GABE: Come on the hard part's over.
HAL: ( grim ) That's it.
THE FUSELAGE: which sits intact by the other edge of the precipice.
GABE: I thought the fuselage was broken. That looks pretty cozy.
HAL: ( puzzled too ) The pilot was hysterical.
GABE: Something's wrong here
HAL: Does this look like a prank to you? Come on
HAL: Relax we're here to help
HAL: Don't try to talk
TRAVERS: ( hoarse whisper ) Where? What are you
HAL: Where? What are you
TRAVERS: You said "we". Where are the rest?
TRAVERS: What's for dinner? Ugh. "Dried Beef Slices With Barbeque Try and make this edible.
TRAVERS: Hal Tucker. Where's yours?
QUALEN: He doesn't have one. Just a wallet.
TRAVERS: Gabe Walker. Very attractive.
GABE: My ex.
TRAVERS: Too bad. Let me tell you what's on for today. We'd like you to help settle a wager. You see, we lost some
TRAVERS: ( showing them the blips ) See these? Now I've bet the gentlemen behind you that you know enough about this mountain range to lead us to each of these, quickly, and that you'd be happy to do so. They bet me you couldn't and wouldn't. ( guns are clicked ) Now tell me who wins?
TRAVERS: Good dog. Now let's get this expedition started.
TRAVERS: Okay. Connect the dots.
GABE: This way.
GABE: ( sotto ) We don't have to do this. We know these mountains they don't. If we can get ahead
HAL: Can you climb faster than they can We've got to try something. Think we'll get a finder's fee after they get all their "luggage"?
GABE: We've got to try something. Think we'll get a finder's fee after they get all their "luggage"?
HAL: Sure. All the bullets we can eat.
GABE: That's not what really worries me.
HAL: There's something else to worry Yeah. Once they've got what they're after they're gonna need a copter to get out of here.
GABE: Yeah. Once they've got what they're after they're gonna need a copter to get out of here.
HAL: ( realizing )
THE WALL: The climbers have reached a point of comparative comfort on the wall the ledge is now two feet wide. Travers takes out the tracer monitor the monitor shows that the first case is just above them.
TRAVERS: Hold it. It's up there.
TRAVERS: I'll need the ice axe.
GABE: I'll need the ice axe.
TRAVERS: ( laughs ) You've got to be kidding.
GABE: ( sighs ) Okay. How about some tape?
GABE: Crampons too.
QUALEN: I don't trust him.
TRAVERS: ( indicating wall ) Where could he go?
QUALEN: I'd rather he didn't show us. We don't need two guides.
TRAVERS: ( shrugs ) You win. Kill him when he gets down.
THE OVERHANG: Exhausted, Gabe pulls himself prone across the top. Something hard is underneath him Gabe recovers and brushes the snow off the money case that's underneath. It's battered from the fall, but is still barely holding together. Gabe manages to force open the trashed locks he looks inside the case, and fingers a band of $5000s.
GABE: ON THE LEDGE - TRAVERS AND QUALEN look up. They can see Gabe has made it but they can't see him, or the case.
TRAVERS: ( impatient, shouting ) Lower it down now!
TRAVERS: ( shouts to Heldon ) Get him!
GABE: who has to flatten against the upper ledge bullets howl past at twenty per second, SPARKING against the lip of the rock it's cover, but not much
HAL: looks up, worried
QUALEN: ( shouting ) Bring the money down, or we kill your
TRAVERS: We can't. And he knows it.
HELDON: smiles, seeing Gabe's cover is gone Heldon's ledge is getting wider, so it's easier for him to fire up. Heldon moves out to the edge
GABE: looks up, sweating it
GABE: Come on
GABE: who drops the case and hugs the wall
THE AVALANCHE: Heldon's machine fun FIRES uselessly as he's swallowed in an explosion of white as well as a flurry of green as the bills scatter amid the snow then: quiet. The avalanche ends as abruptly as it started. The rumble dies down to complete silence.
TRAVERS: apoplectic, stares at seventeen million dollars worth of snow settling far below. He takes his gun, furious, and fires at
HAL: reacts and attacks Travers.
HAL: You son of a bitch
QUALEN: No. We need him to get the rest of the If he dies we lose everything
TRAVERS: ( to Hal ) Get us out of here.
EVAN: What the hell
EVAN: lowers the binoculars.
EVAN: Brett you're not going to believe this but a couple of guys are holding a gun on Hal and forcing him up the bluff
BRETT: who has found both Heldon's broken body, and his gun, half buried in snow. Evan walks over, amazed.
EVAN: What the fuck is going on here?
BRETT: Let's catch up and find out.
GABE: his hand gropes out and with some difficulty, he digs himself out, gasping and coughing. Gabe, coated with snow, leans against the wall and rests. Alive.
MAGGIE: ( keying mike ) Rescue Unit what's going on, Hall? over
TRAVERS: No tricks, no procedural codes, no personal messages just tell them everything's under control and you're taking care of the wounded.
HAL: ( keys it ) We've reached the wreckage top of Comb Bluff six injured, but they're responding to treatment. Everything A-OK. Over.
HAL: Negative, Maggie. Winds are too high, and the passengers' injuries are all superficial. We're going to ride out the storm here over
TRAVERS: Have her come up.
HAL: Forget it downdrafts would wipe her all over the peaks Not that I expect you to give a shit, but it's our only copter. You'll be stuck.
HAL: ( breaking in ) Forget about it, Maggie, that's an order acknowledge
MAGGIE: Acknowledged. Let me talk to Gabe You can't. He's taking care of passengers. Just like I should be. Over and out.
TRAVERS: ( snatching radio away ) Good. You might live longer than your friend. Now ( takes out monitor )
HAL: The next one's on top of the peak. This'll be long, but easy more like a hike than a climb.
TRAVERS: ( suspicious ) It looks like a winding route.
HAL: There's a more direct route. The East Face. But it's the wall on the other side, and it's smooth as glass. Maybe a dozen guys in the world could do it in good weather. Only a psycho would try it in a snowstorm.
GABE: and he barely has the strength to hold on, much less go up. Gabe holds himself steady with one hand, gets a foothold, and swings another hand up to SLAM it against the wall. He's improvised gear he's tied a crampon to one hand. But it's as awkward as it sounds. Gabe moves up only a foot or so then pulls out the crampon, reaches up, and SLAMS it into the wall, starting the painful process over again.
CUT TO;: INT. DENVER MINT - WRIGHT'S OFFICE - DAY Wright's pacing around, trying to figure out what in his office he should break first. Davis shows up at the door.
WRIGHT: ( furious ) Okay I know it's not in San Francisco. I know it's not here. I know it's not in any fucking airport from here to Montana. Where it's not - we got that covered. Now, do you have any ideas on where it is?
DAVIS: ( walking to a map ) There's no radio contact, sir. At all. We're not receiving the tracer signal from the cockpit's flight recorder. Radar lost it after it went low here. We have to assume it went down in the Air search?
DAVIS: We have to assume it went down in the Air search?
WRIGHT: Air search?
DAVIS: ( shakes head ) That storm hasn't quit yet. Weather service says we've got it until tomorrow morning at least. Even if we could get a plane up now, it'd be impossible to see anything on the ground. And
WRIGHT: The roads are shut down, right?
DAVIS: Most of this area doesn't even have Keep two copters on full standby. And let me know the second that storm starts to wind down.
WRIGHT: ( rubs his eyes ) Keep two copters on full standby. And let me know the second that storm starts to wind down.
GABE: ( teeth chattering ) A steambath. ( spikes himself up ) A steambath and a bottle of ( new foothold ) A steambath with a bottle of Glenlivet. And a fire. ( new handhold ) A steambath with a bottle of Glenlivet and a steak. ( new foothold ) A steak soaked with Glenlivet, cooking over a steambath on fire.
GABE: is right underneath where the ice flows over the wall. Gabe takes his handheld crampon and hammers it into the ice overhead with more force than usual. This one is going to have to hold. Gabe steels himself for a tough move with one hand gripping that crampon, he swings out, away from the wall. Only the crampon spikes jammed into the ice above his hand are keeping Gabe from falling. Gabe needs the second crampon to make the move up but that's not going to be easy to get. It's attached to his boot. As Gabe clings to the upper crampon, his body swaying, he reaches down with his free hand to loosen the other crampon.
GABE'S FACE: shows real, solid terror for the first time
GABE: still swinging from one hand, takes the now-freed crampon and slams it into the ice. It doesn't hold but the force of Gabe's swing, pushing him away, has loosened the other crampon. Gabe only gets one more shot at this he swings the free crampon up with all his might it catches in the same split second as the other dislodges. But the hard part is over with the two crayons, Gabe quickly manages to climb up over the lip of
THE SUMMIT: which is a rocky, wooded area. Gabe seems to have a second wind now he runs to the other side of the summit. The other side is obviously the route Hal and the others will be taking beneath the summit is a winding, well-beaten path. Gabe finally arrives at a small shack with a sign nearby commemorating the "DOUGLAS EXPEDITION - 1933".
GABE: ( sighing ) Sorry, Gordon I promise I'll have it back tomorrow.
HAL: Come on tourists take this trail.
GABE: climbs down from his rock perch and rushes toward the tree.
TRAVERS: Is this it?
HAL: Yeah. This is it.
TRAVERS: Good. Get out of the way.
TRAVERS: ( smiling ) This way.
TRAVERS: is excited now he can't even wait for Qualen's flashlight, he intuitively races through the trees, dividing his attention between his surroundings and
THE MONITOR: which shows he's practically on top of the case finally
TRAVERS: shoves his way through some small pines he can see the blinking of the red tracer light ahead through the branches.
TRAVERS: ( calling behind ) It's over here!
A SNOWMAN: cute, if hastily constructed, stands with a five-pebble smile, as well as Douglas' cap, in a clearing. The still blinking, still operable tracer is now the nose of the snowman. The case is leaned up against it. Travers runs over to the case, furious, and opens it. It's empty except for a single $5000 bill. Travers picks it up scrawled on the margin is "LET'S TRADE."
TRAVERS: ( incredulous ) He's still alive. ( furious ) He's still alive! ( to Qualen and the He can't be far away spread out!
TRAVERS: ( to Hal, brandishing gun ) Put your hands on your head.
GABE: begins climbing down to level ground so he can circle closer to where Travers is holding Hal before he can get far
RYAN: smiles, looking macabre under the goggles, and opens fire
GABE: is startled as the bullets impact inches over his head he jumps the last ten feet to the ground and is running even as he hits the ground more bullets hit where Gabe was a split second ago
RYAN: chases Gabe, easily maneuvering through the trees
GABE: runs too, trying to dodge Ryan's continuing fusillades Gabe knows this territory, but to him, it's still pitch dark he stumbles, and rams against trees
RYAN: keeps coming up behind, closing the hap, Gabe's bright form just ahead
GABE: comes out of the trees and finds he is on another part of the summit. All that's beneath him is
GABE'S POV: a sudden, sloping plunge down a field of ice. No escape route here anything that goes down this slide is going all the way to the ground far below.
GABE: is driven forward by a fresh burst of bullets he dives to the edge of the ice field and ducks behind a boulder the sole source of cover.
RYAN: almost casually emerges from the woods. He can see there is nowhere for Gabe to have gone except behind the boulder. He walks toward it as if he had all the time in the world.
GABE: fumbles in his backpack and pulls out something from the Douglas exhibit an ancient flare that looks like a can of sterno. Gabe pulls out his lighter and tries to light it it resists and looks like a dud, but finally it catches, and as it ignites Gabe heaves it over the boulder at Ryan
RYAN: SCREAMS, putting one hand over the goggles, trying to rip them bolts out from behind the boulder to rush him
GABE: bolts out from behind the boulder to rush him
RYAN: instantly aware of what Gabe's doing, blindly shoots, fanning out in a semi-circle as he gets the goggles off
GABE: just runs straight ahead to Ryan, getting to him before the machine gun field of fire can intersect his path Gabe tackles Ryan as he manages to get the goggles off both men fall to the ground, and The machine gun CLATTERS away, landing on the edge of the ice, just out of reach Ryan, now recovered from the blinding flash, pulls an ice axe out of a pack sheath and swings it at Gabe Gabe rolls away in time, and gets to the machine gun, grabbing it But Ryan dives for Gabe, slamming into him the force of it knocks the machine gun loose it skips down the ice slope but the momentum of Ryan's hit also carries both Gabe and Ryan over the edge, onto
GABE: tries to maintain his perch on Ryan, who is SCREAMING and not yet used to the idea of being a human sled he isn't remaining still enough to provide a smooth ride Gabe frantically reaches behind to Ryan's wrist to get the ice axe, trailing from a wrist strap, but Ryan's arm is thrashing away, threatening to toss off the axe
ON SUMMIT: Qualen, Kristel and Kynette arrive at the lip, and look down, QUALEN POV - GABE RIDING RYAN Gabe and Ryan, accelerating, have almost reached the edge
GABE: finally grabs the ice axe, pulling it off Ryan's wrist just as they reach the precipice edge, Gabe loops the axe to his wrist and swings toward the ice with everything he's got The axe's scythe-like blade catches on the ice, right at the lip of the precipice Gabe is wrenched to a painful halt, suspended over the drop, as what's left of Ryan, still SCREAMING, shoots over the edge Gabe unhooks the axe, and gets another handhold. Gabe uses the axe to climb further down the ice to some rock finding easier hand holds, he quickly disappears into the darkness.
QUALEN: ( to Kynette ) Follow him!
KYNETTE: ( gestures with light ) After you.
HAL: Well look at the bright side. At least you've only got to make the split five ways now.
THE CAVE: in the flickering light, we can see that no one has been in here for a while snow, dust, rocks but we should also recognize this from the photo seen earlier as Gabe, Maggie and Hal's hangout.
GABE: smiles with the memories then his face brightens with one memory in particular. Gabe rushes to a corner of the cave and opens a rock-lid to a hiding place.
GABE: Please still be there oh,
THE FIRE: which is built out of small bundles of $5,000 bills. It's safe to say that something like $500,000 is going up in smoke, and the fire's dying down. Gabe tosses a fresh band of bills on the flame. Gabe cools the knife in some snow, saws off a rat leg, and chews unhappily.
GABE: ( mouth full ) Mmm. Just like chicken.
DAVIS: We've got a fix on the plane, sir we're getting a reading on the flight recorder tracer
WRIGHT: Any visual? Any radio contact?
DAVIS: Not yet
WRIGHT: ( heading to the door ) Get the copters ready. We take off in three minutes.
DAVIS: The winds are still too strong
WRIGHT: Sorry to hear it. We're still going. The plane might be intact.
DAVIS: Shut up. That fifty million isn't coming out of my pension.
WRIGHT: Shut up. That fifty million isn't coming out of my pension.
TRAVERS: Still interested in staying alive?
HAL: ( pointing to map ) It's up here. Somewhere on the Tower. There's a way to cross over to the top in about half a day.
TRAVERS: Show me.
BRETT: I'll cut around this side, and wind up in front. You come up behind them quietly. And we've got 'em.
EVAN: Brett they've got five guns
BRETT: And you can collect them all after I get the drop on 'em. Let's get moving.
HAL: makes eye contact with Brett, realizes what he's doing, and shakes his head as violently as he dares no, don't
BRETT: gives Hal a confident wink in response, then pounces in front of the gang, gun held high.
BRETT: End of the line!
BRETT: ( nervous now ) You heard me! Drop the guns!
TRAVERS: "End of the line"? That's classic. You've got style. So, I'm going to give you a three-count to figure out how to turn the safety off.
BRETT: Nice try. I've got one of these at home. Now drop 'em.
BRETT: Hey where's the other guy
HAL: ( shouting ) Brett, behind you!
QUALEN: easily mows down Brett with his machine gun, riddling him with at least thirty rounds at close range. Brett falls dead into the snow. Qualen walks up to Brett's corpse, blood steaming in the reddening snow, and kicks it over.
TRAVERS: ( turning to face Hal ) Time to
EVAN: What are we going to do
HAL: You came up here to jump the spur This'd be a great time to do it.
EVAN: ( panicked ) ( quick ) Listen they don't know you're up here I'll draw their fire, you've got to make the jump and get help.
HAL: ( quick ) Listen they don't know you're up here I'll draw their fire, you've got to make the jump and get help.
EVAN: I don't I uh
HAL: ( exasperated, grabs Unless you want to do it the other way
EVAN'S FOOTPRINTS: in the snow not unlike a neon arrow.
TRAVERS: runs in the direction of the footprints and quickly closes the gap between him and
EVAN: who tries to pull on the chute and run at the same time it's not easy. Evan closes one of the three buckles but
TRAVERS: bursts out of the woods and runs up right behind him
KRISTEL: Hal, caught again, freezes in his tracks.
EVAN: is still up and running he dodges Travers' fire, weaving through trees, getting the second buckle closed he sees the edge, just ahead, and puts on an extra burst of speed
TRAVERS: does likewise, still firing his clip runs out, but this only buys Evan an extra few seconds
THE SPUR: is a rock formation that just out like a diving board Evan runs like hell to the edge of it
TRAVERS: is right behind him, and has slapped a fresh clip in place, but before he can shoot
EVAN: dives off the edge and clasps the third buckle
GABE: Come on wait till you're out of range don't pull it yet
TRAVERS: stops firing but doesn't seem unhappy at all.
EVAN: LAUGHS more and pulls the D-ring the parachute billows open, inflating
EVAN'S: exhilaration turns to panic as he frantically pulls on the chute's guide lines but the more he does this, the faster the chute caves in he SCREAMS as the chute finally gives way and plummets right past
EVAN: falls the long, full five thousand feet, desperately, uselessly, pulling in the lines of the tattered chute until he's tangled in it like a shroud
GABE: turns away he can't watch Evan hit bottom he grimaces and looks up with absolute hate at
TRAVERS: who doesn't see Gabe he's laughing at Evan's desperation, which ends as his death scream is cut off. Hal is led over to the spur, with the other gang members behind him. Hal looks as angry as Gabe.
QUALEN: Was that Walker?
TRAVERS: No such luck. Cheer up. Everyone should die in a spot this beautiful.
GABE: ( quietly ) Don't worry. You will.
FRANK: Maggie what are you doing
MAGGIE: I'm going to go nuts if I sit here one more hour.
FRANK: Still a little breezy out, Mag
MAGGIE: ( over engine's whine ) You coming?
TRAVERS: Forget about it. He's smart, but he's not invisible.
THE "CHIMNEY": A crevice runs the entire length and breadth of the bluff.
GABE: pulls out his ancient binoculars, and scans the crack.
GABE: puts away the binoculars and wedges himself into the crack, starting the long process of going up and through the mountain formation.
WRIGHT: unhappily walks through the carnage and past agents gathering up the plane, to a harried crash specialist from the FAA ROSS STUART ( 40s ) who is organizing the debris.
WRIGHT: What can you confirm?
STUART: Well, sir it crashed. That, I can We've been here just about one hour. These events take months to analyze. So if you'll excuse me
WRIGHT: No, I don't think I will. The reason the FAA pays you is to exercise your vast, amazing knowledge of these "events". So I expect you to come up with some stunning insights, something a slow-witted fuck like me hasn't already observed. One: it didn't blow up in mid-air, because the debris isn't widely dispersed. But was there a bomb on board that could have disabled it? I Two: There wasn't an attempted landing. Otherwise, there'd be debris to the east of the wreckage, where the plane was coming from. Did it come straight down? That's got me scratching my head too. And three: the flight recorder's tracer led us here in the first place. So where is the goddamn thing? That one's got me all aflush with You'll be the first to know.
STUART: ( a little cowed ) You'll be the first to know.
WRIGHT: Oh, I believe you.
TRAVERS: I thought you said there was an easy way across.
HAL: There is. You might not like it much.
FURTHER DOWN: A steep two hundred yard downhill climb leads to a wire that bridges the two mountains. The same wire we saw at the beginning left behind from Susan Collins' botched rescue.
HAL: Of course we'll have to do it hand over hand. Seems I forgot my harness. Don't be. Lead on.
TRAVERS: Don't be. Lead on.
THE CRACK: running up, and through, the bluff, coming out on this side.
HAL'S FACE: registers a thought will he? then dismissal. Nah. He INT. THE CRACK/CHIMNEY - CLOSE ON GABE'S FACE Gabe is sweating, straining in the dark, climbing up this'd be a good spot to pull back and take in the view, except
THE CHIMNEY: there's nowhere to pull back to. There's about two inches of clearance between Gabe's chest and the rock, and about the same between his back and the rock. To the right, there is no light. At all. To the left, there's no light. Even above, there is no light, because the crack isn't straight nature isn't that obliging it zig-zags up. Gabe is well within the mountain rock. Nothing could be closer to being buried alive Gabe snakes through a spot where the crack goes straight up he takes out his penlight and turns it on
GABE'S FACE: is stuck somewhere between nausea and the realization that he's made a big mistake.
GABE: I didn't need to see that. I really
THEIR VIEW: is nothing but empty wilderness. But a BUZZER goes off
FRANK: Got 'em they're under the trees
MAGGIE: Hal! Gabe!
MAGGIE: It's Evan. Parachute failed.
FRANK: ( not unkindly ) Damn fool. Why would anybody try that in the middle of a storm.
MAGGIE: Why would anybody try at all. Get the bag.
GABE: Should've taken that left turn at
GABE: blindly pushes to the side, rattled by the difficulty of doing this in the dark.
GABE: It's just like any other side move you can't see where the fuck you're going, that's all
GABE: exasperated, puts the penlight in his mouth and moves on.
GABE: ( garbled ) Much better.
GABE: still cursing, still looking up, still moving to the side he gets the opening he wants, but not where he wants it The crack suddenly, drastically widens as he moves to the side since he's been bracing his back against the wall, Gabe falls out of control, twisting around, face down Gabe bounces down the walls for several yards and catches himself by bracing his arms and legs against the crack. It's now five feet wide as he painfully brakes himself
GABE: is now, literally, in a jam. There are no handholds, no ledges, and the walls are slick. All he can do is remain braced against the crack's walls until his already sore arms and legs give out.
MAGGIE: ( motioning down ) Bring it down here.
FRANK: Just do it, Frank.
MAGGIE: Just do it, Frank.
FRANK: Maggie, this is dumb
MAGGIE: No it isn't. I'm going to find Brett I don't want to have to talk to his widow too. Fly Evan's body back to base I'll call you when I've found Brett. Or Hal. Or Gabe. Or anybody.
HAL: unhappily hangs high above the ground from the harness kindly provided by Travers
KYNETTE: ( motioning up ) I'm going back.
TRAVERS: Look this part is nothing, believe me
KYNETTE: Walker should be coming up by now.
GABE: snaps the lighter shut, pockets it, and readies himself. Gabe steadily "walks" up the vertical passage by bracing himself with one leg and one arm then moving the other leg and arm up. Gabe repeats this until he has his hands on the curved edge where the crack snakes into a sideways passage. But there are no handholds that will allow Gabe to get a grip and simply swing over and climb up.
GABE: ( winded ) So much for the easy part.
KYNETTE: smiles and hits his headset radio.
KYNETTE: He's on the way up. I could hear that jacket before I could see it.
KYNETTE: ( into radio ) I'll wait till he comes to me.
GABE: knows the top is twenty feet away. Gabe starts up the easy segment, his back braced against one wall.
KYNETTE: keys his headset radio again.
KYNETTE: ( into radio ) Bulletin. The climber isn't Walker it's a woman.
KYNETTE: Rotten weather for a climb, huh? I have two questions I'd like to trouble you with. Ready?
KYNETTE: This first one's easy. Do you know a man named Gabe Walker?
MAGGIE: ( breathless, scared ) Where is he?
KYNETTE: You don't know either? I am sorry. That was question number two. Thanks for your time.
GABE: appears he completes his run toward Kynette's back and kicks him over the edge
KYNETTE: goes flying over Maggie, his shots going wild but he catches himself on the rock and comes to a painful but safe halt after skidding down ten feet
GABE: yanks Maggie to her feet and onto the top. Maggie gets a good look at Gabe his clothes are slashed, he's covered with cuts, and coated with slime and dirt from the crack. He looks like he's just spent a week in Hell. Gabe doesn't react to her reaction he just grabs her hand and runs.
QUALEN: chooses this moment to show up at the opposite edge he fires and automatic BURST at Gabe and Maggie.
GABE: Come on
MAGGIE: Gabe jumps on a spot in the snow over the crack, caving it in Gabe falls two feet into
GABE: Gabe jumps on a spot in the snow over the crack, caving it in Gabe falls two feet into
GABE: Today, goddamit!
MAGGIE: hesitates she's still getting used to the idea of being shot at
KYNETTE: woozy but recovered, has climbed up he runs toward the opening, FIRING his gun
MAGGIE: drops into the relative safety of the crack and rappels Maggie reaches rope's end thirty feet down, as the vertical passage again becomes diagonal. Gabe is there waiting.
KYNETTE: reaches the edge of the crack and FIRES down into it
KYNETTE: can't see what he's shooting at, so he mercifully stops. Seeing the rope, he bends down to climb after them
GABE: feels the rope go taut he yanks the rope down hard
KYNETTE: gets more pull than he counted on and takes a head first fall into the crack, disappearing with a scream Qualen has just arrived in time to see this
GABE: looks over as Kynette bounces past him, a few feet away the rope goes slack in his hand as Kynette falls below.
GABE: This way. I like the outside of the mountain better too, but
QUALEN: is still at the edge of the crack stymied. He's definitely not climbing down after them he pulls back from the edge.
GABE: We can't
MAGGIE: We can't
GABE: I need to stop.
GABE: ( looks at Maggie ) I'm glad to see you but Christ, I wish you hadn't come.
TRAVERS: Don't tell me
QUALEN: ( disengaging ) He's still alive.
QUALEN: For another two minutes.
MAGGIE: It hurts just looking at you.
GABE: ( still panting ) Try it from this side. Do you still have your radio?
MAGGIE: It's not going to work in here.
GABE: Let's give it a try. I'm in bad need of a ride. Come in, Rescue Unit
QUALEN: INT. RESCUE STATION The radio is reading Gabe loud, if not clear the interference of solid rock is garbling it. But we can see out the window that Frank is now between radios, carefully hauling Evan's body from the helicopter to the station on a collapsible gurney. No one else is in the station.
GABE: Is there anybody else on the radio?
GABE: I take a year off and the department goes to hell. Come in, Rescue Unit
QUALEN: Try to get thirty million in entertainment out of this, because he is definitely in for thirty million worth of pain.
TOWER FACE: Hal lunges at Qualen, but is held back by Travers.
HAL: You sick fuck
QUALEN: Don't worry. They may still be alive. That was the small one.
RESCUE STATION: Frank stops wheeling the gurney and looks up at the far-off blast, and the smoke, amazed.
FRANK: Jesus that's some flare.
GABE: is knocked down to a point where the crack narrows he stops himself by jamming his body against the sides. Suddenly, it's quiet. A little dirt whistles through, but that's all. The cave-in has stopped, as it's filled in the crack above. And Maggie is in the middle of it. Gabe unsheaths his ice axe and starts hacking up to get at Maggie. Dirt and rocks fall in his face as he digs
GABE: Are you all right?
MAGGIE: ( terrified, coughing ) Why are they doing this?
RESCUE STATION: Frank, having lain Evan's body to rest, runs back to the helicopter, starts it up and takes off.
MAGGIE: ( looks up ) We might be able to get up that way there's an opening
GABE: No there could be another bomb up there even if there isn't, we could get another cave-in. The only sure way out is through the side.
DAVIS: I've got something here.
STUART: Let's have it.
DAVIS: There's an unconfirmed report of a distress call made from a plane that That's really, really interesting, but
STUART: That's really, really interesting, but
DAVIS: This call was supposedly made from a plane that crash landed. After it Sounds like they got it wrong. Next time you interrupt my work make sure it's something I can use.
STUART: ( waves it off ) Sounds like they got it wrong. Next time you interrupt my work make sure it's something I can use.
GABE: ( smiling ) Come on we're almost out.
A HAND: grabs one of Gabe's ankles from below and yanks him down Gabe tumbles painfully, braking himself in front of
KYNETTE: bruised and bloody, who has survived the earlier fall and made his way out. His look is not a forgiving one.
KYNETTE: Miss me?
GABE: falls back, desperately grabbing at the walls to stop himself from going all the way down as he weakly tries to get up
KYNETTE: calmly opens his knife, and re-laces his fingers into its brass-knuckle handle.
TOWER FACE: The gang and Hal watch the mountain top, with very different expectations and hopes their vantage point keeps them from seeing where the crack actually comes out.
QUALEN: ( looks to Hal ) You might say a few words for your friends this is the one that will bury them.
TOWER FACE: Qualen's smirk is wiped off his face. The bomb didn't work?
TRAVERS: What happened?
QUALEN: I'm not sure I set the timer Gabe, it's a dud
HAL: ( keying radio ) Gabe, it's a dud
GABE: Maggie doesn't have to be told twice she and Gabe move out the narrowed crack quickly, but under the circumstances, this "running" looks damn slow
KYNETTE: struggles with the stuck knife as the cave-in knocks him off the wall and buries him instantly
TOWER FACE: Hal, shocked, stares at the enormity of the explosion. Qualen looks serenely satisfied.
QUALEN: When I was seventeen, I was a sentry on the East Berlin boundary. There was a problem, then too many defectors were managing to sneak through the wilderness to the west. A man would take them through, every night of every week a man like your He had quite a sense of humor. Every time he got someone through, he'd radio us at midnight to let us know how many. "Five tonight." "Eight more have been freed tonight." No one could find the route. It made me look I looked day and night and finally I found it. A tunnel. I didn't tell me superiors. I put a charge there, with a timer to trigger a radio receiver on the detonator. At midnight. Our friend made his radio report, and I heard him say "seven" before the explosion. They pulled eight bodies out of the tunnel, and I was promoted to intelligence the next day.
TRAVERS: Thanks. We couldn't have killed him without you.
GABE: Knock this in the side. Make it firm.
GABE: puts away the binoculars and swings back to Maggie she lets the length of rope drop. It's thirty feet long. Not even almost long enough to get to the shelter. Gabe leans against the crack wall, drained. Now what?
FRANK: Maggie come in, Maggie, this is Rescue One
TOWER FACE: Frank's call is heard on the radio. Travers takes it, and takes charge.
TRAVERS: There's our ride out of here. Everyone out of sight except you, Kristel. Make the distress call. You're so good at it.
MAGGIE: ( frantic ) What are we going to do?
GABE: ( defeated ) Die. I'm sorry, Maggie. I'm sorry you got into this.
MAGGIE: What are you doing?
WRIGHT: He didn't think a distress call from a crashed plane was "important"? Get me a fucking radio! Now!
FRANK: ( over radio ) Come in, Maggie, over
FRANK: ( over radio ) I copy, Charlie Niner what's your position over
FRANK: ( over radio ) Sit tight, Charlie Niner I'm right on top of you.
MAGGIE: ( shouting, waving ) Frank! Down here! Frank!
GABE: Forget about it. He can't hear you. Tie these together. Tight.
MAGGIE: ( realizing ) Are you out of your mind
GABE: This is rope from the Gordon exhibit. The way guys climbed then, they'd tie on three at a time this rope'll take around nine hundred pounds.
MAGGIE: Gabe this rope is sixty years old
GABE: ( misses the point ) Yeah, they made it pretty good then. Each of these strands ought to hold about 300 pounds before snapping.
MAGGIE: ( dazed ) Ought to. About. ( beat ) Will it hold?
GABE: Depends on how big a breakfast you had. You want to go first?
THE ROPE: which looks sorely tested at one knot it's coming undone
GABE: ( shouting ) Swing towards it and drop!
THE ROPE: MAGGIE AND GABE fall, landing roughly on the cave's narrow lip Gabe starts to slip over, but Maggie pulls him back as
FRANK: What the fuck
KRISTEL: What who are
FRANK: Don't worry. I'm here to help.
KRISTEL: ( recovered ) Glad to hear it.
FRANK: Jailhouse load. First chamber's the rest aren't. Forgive me, but things have been a little strange this
DELMER: comes out of hiding and empties a clip from his automatic into Frank. Frank is pinned to the door by the fusillade before he can even get a shot off. Travers runs over to Delmer and shoves the barrel up.
TRAVER: ( explaining ) You'll damage the helicopter.
TRAVERS: ( to Kristel ) Answer that.
KRISTEL: ( keying radio ) Rocky Mountain Rescue One, over
STUART: This is Ross Stuart, Federal Aviation Administration please identify
KRISTEL: Copy, FAA. This is Margaret Deighan, Rocky Mountain Rescue. Over
KRISTEL: ( keying mike ) Copy, FAA. Distress call came at approximately eleven hundred hours yesterday. I investigated the call turned out to be a false alarm. Over.
STUART: Please repeat, Rocky Mountain Rescue distress call was a false alarm? over
STUART: Not from you. Thanks, Rocky Mountain Rescue over and out
STUART: I don't want to say I told you so. But I did. Can I go back to work now?
TRAVERS: I almost believed you myself.
HAL: trembling with fury and grief, bent over Frank's body as the last trace of vapor his breath trails from his lips. He's gone. Hal gently closes the eyes of his friend.
HAL: ( quiet ) Goodbye, Frank.
TRAVERS: Time for number three. Unless you want to have a longer conversation with him Fuck off.
HAL: ( low ) Fuck off.
HAL: I think I'll wait here. You just murdered three of my friends. Sooner or later, whoever's chasing you is going to show up and return the favor, and I'd love to watch.
TRAVERS: Suit yourself. You see, we just had a little interface with several branches of the federal government one of whose members I know has zero imagination and I can tell you, the cavalry just isn't going to make it by this week. No, you're taking us where we want to go. Because you want to return that favor and you want to do more than watch. You want to kill me more than anything, even more than you want to keep on breathing, and with a little more time you pray you'll get that chance. Am I right?
GABE: Are you okay?
MAGGIE: My ears are ringing but I'm all right. Gabe, what's going on?
GABE: ( shows money in his pack ) This. That plane crash it's a half dozen guys who were smart enough to steal fifty million bucks, but dumb enough to drop it all over the range. They've got Hal as a bird dog and right now they're heading for the rest of it.
MAGGIE: It's close to the lake Hal's probably leading them on the slowest possible route down to it. I can get there first all I have to do is make it along the north wall to the Bitker ladder
GABE: It's close to the lake Hal's probably leading them on the slowest possible route down to it. I can get there first all I have to do is make it along the north wall to the Bitker ladder
MAGGIE: "All?" Jesus, Gabe what do you expect to do then?
GABE: ( aching ) Something subtle.
MAGGIE: I'm going with you.
GABE: No way. You're climbing back down try to get to the station or find some I'm just as good a climber as you are and right now, I'm definitely in better shape.
MAGGIE: I'm just as good a climber as you are and right now, I'm definitely in better shape.
GABE: ( hard ) And you're definitely not going Okay. Come on
GABE: Okay. Come on
GABE: but the second you slow me down, I'm leaving I'm leaving you behind. Understood?
MAGGIE: ( helping Gabe out ) Anything you say, Gabe.
DAVIS: We've tested the ash inside it's the right paper.
WRIGHT: What about the men?
DAVIS: It's hard to tell. But forensics says yes. All of them were in the Everything's accounted for, then time to head back and start making Fifty million bucks up in smoke, and I just don't give a shit. It's one more run of the press. But we lost five good men and they aren't so easily Especially a guy like Travers.
WRIGHT: ( sags with the news ) Everything's accounted for, then time to head back and start making ( beat ) Fifty million bucks up in smoke, and I just don't give a shit. It's one more run of the press. But we lost five good men and they aren't so easily ( beat ) Especially a guy like Travers.
TRAVERS: Qualen. How far along are you?
QUALEN: ( keys radio ) It looks like two miles, but
QUALEN: it'll take some time.
QUALEN: ( keys radio ) What about him?
QUALEN: ( keys radio )
HAL: can only hear Qualen's end of the conversation but his face shows he can guess what they're talking about.
MAGGIE: ( beat ) I'll go first.
GABE: ( shakes his head ) If I don't go first, I might not go at
GABE'S: grip unconsciously relaxes but his eyes jolt open and he clamps both hands shut on the wire. Gabe, drawing on some inner fury, drags himself with long, sharp yanks
MAGGIE: tensely watches Gabe's crossing
GABE: pulls faster and reaches the other side. Gabe maintains his hand grip and swings his feet onto the ledge, leaning back against the wall to catch his breath.
GABE: ( winded, shouting across ) Think you can beat my time?
MAGGIE: smiles this is more like the Gabe she remembers. She gets on the wire and starts across in a fast, easy rhythm.
GABE: watches her, grinning. Admiration for Maggie is washing away bad memories of Susan.
GABE: ( to himself ) Shit she is in better shape.
GABE: doesn't notice and shouts across at Maggie, now half way.
GABE: ( enjoying it now ) Quit sandbagging it I haven't got all day
THE WIRE: which was tight as a bowstring fires out into the chasm Maggie, stunned and without options, lets go two feet short of the ledge
GABE: drops low just as Maggie starts to fall and swings his arm out towards hers in one lightning-fast motion
THEIR HANDS: maintains his grip on Maggie's hand, but her weight nearly pulls him off the ledge Maggie drags him down, the window goes out of his chest when it collides with the ledge's bottom, but their grip holds. All of this in a split second. Maggie hangs from Gabe's arm, locked in terror but skill wins out over fear. She finds a handhold with her free arm, and climbs up to the ledge with Gabe's help. Maggie collapses into Gabe's arms and they fall back against the wall, but Gabe's the one who's really holding on tight.
GABE: maintains his grip on Maggie's hand, but her weight nearly pulls him off the ledge Maggie drags him down, the window goes out of his chest when it collides with the ledge's bottom, but their grip holds. All of this in a split second. Maggie hangs from Gabe's arm, locked in terror but skill wins out over fear. She finds a handhold with her free arm, and climbs up to the ledge with Gabe's help. Maggie collapses into Gabe's arms and they fall back against the wall, but Gabe's the one who's really holding on tight.
GABE: That tears it. You're not coming any further.
MAGGIE: ( just as breathless ) Gabe you're going to get yourself ( breath almost back ) Maybe. But I'm not getting you ( she starts a reply ) Look, Maggie. I don't know what'll happen when I catch up with Hal but I've got to know one thing for sure that you're making it off this mountain. Alive.
GABE: ( breath almost back ) Maybe. But I'm not getting you ( she starts a reply ) Look, Maggie. I don't know what'll happen when I catch up with Hal but I've got to know one thing for sure that you're making it off this mountain. Alive.
MAGGIE: Gabe lightly kisses Maggie he doesn't want to turn this into a farewell kiss, afraid that that's really what it might be. They stand and separate. Gabe moves away.
GABE: Get on the trail and stay out of I'll see you on the ground.
WRIGHT: I give up. What was it?
SEARCH PILOT: ID says this used to be your pilot. And we found him seven miles east of the wreck. A hijack. The plane was hijacked. Son of a Oh, give me a break. Your pilot lost it when the flight started going south, and he bailed
WRIGHT: A hijack. The plane was hijacked. Son of a Oh, give me a break. Your pilot lost it when the flight started going south, and he bailed
STUART: Oh, give me a break. Your pilot lost it when the flight started going south, and he bailed
SEARCH PILOT: Excuse me but there's no parachute there. Check it yourself.
FORENSICS AGENT: Sir we found the flight recorder it was driven twenty feet deep into a crater. It was demolished, but we salvaged the recording
STUART: ( grabbing it away ) I've heard a thousand of these, Wright whoever was at the stick is going to begin by screeching the Lord's Prayer and wind up screaming "Oh, shit" at ground zero
WRIGHT: Guess we're both right, Stuart. Thanks for your expertise. You'll be waiting till Groundhog's Day for him to pull his head out of his ass let's get it in the air!
LEDGE: that's a little narrower than your coffee table. It's got irregular breaks, causing it to go up or down several feet and Gabe is jogging it, leaping across the ledge's gaps, leaning toward the wall and away from the four thousand foot drop. Gabe's gotten his second wind he keeps jumping from ledge to ledge with the ease that comes from skill and familiarity, and with renewed purpose. Gabe makes the last jump to a section of ledge near the bottom of
GABE: Hasn't gotten any lower in the last Bitker, you cheap bastard. Would another four feet have killed you?
WOODED AREA: where Gabe replants the sign near the top of another slope. Gabe heads down towards some rocks and spots the third case, which took a tough landing on one rock it's shattered into halves, and the bands of $5000s are scattered around in the snow. Gabe rushes down behind a rock and starts gathering the cash soaked by the snow, they've frozen into ice bricks. As Gabe stuffs them into his pack, he's startled by something coming over the rock Gabe whirls around to face
A RABBIT: that's landed in the snow and looks a lot more frightened than Gabe was. Gabe leans back, relieved. For now.
QUALEN: checks the monitor the relative position shows they're
QUALEN: Almost there.
THE MONITOR: the tracer blip is moving fast away from their face shifts from incredulity to realization to rage. All eyes are on the monitor Hal, at the rock formation, has one hand behind his back.
QUALEN'S: face shifts from incredulity to realization to rage. All eyes are on the monitor Hal, at the rock formation, has one hand behind his back.
HAL: moves away from the rock, to draw their attention from what he's been doing
HAL: Oh, no you didn't lose another one, did you?
DELMER: What about him?
QUALEN: ( over his shoulder ) Kill him! Now!
DELMER: Tell me where would you like the first half dozen shots to go?
HAL: ( hands up ) As long as you're taking requests how about the base of your spine?
ON DELMER: as there is the sudden sound of six distinct, consecutive gunshots behind him the fire's blasted the powder in all the bullets. Delmer, startled, spins around and FIRES up, FIRES down, FIRES across by the time he realizes no one's there and he turns back around to find Hal is gone, vanished into the woods.
FOLLOWING QUALEN: through the woods up a slope, around a tree, down another slope his eyes fixed on the screen and the blip that's zig-zagging just ahead of him.
QUALEN: ( tagging headset radio ) Travers. Get down here. Now.
TRAVERS: is trying to repair the helicopter door when the call comes.
TRAVERS: Have you found the money?
QUALEN: is running alone, following the monitor lead until he sees a band of $5000s in the snow. Sure he's on the right track, Qualen picks it up and picks up his pace too. But we can see that behind him and higher up
GABE: who is on a rise behind a rock, watches Qualen's futile pursuit from a distance, amused. Amused, until
KRISTEL: You would have lived longer, if you weren't such a smartass.
KRISTEL: You telegraphed this kind of stunt with that joke snowman. Too bad for you we're not all gullible.
GABE: Good thing for Qualen you are.
KRISTEL: ( pauses, wary ) What do you mean?
GABE: When he comes back, he's going to shoot you and the other guy, grab the money, and take off with Travers.
KRISTEL: ( squeezing trigger again ) No sale. Say "night-night"
GABE: ( talking fast ) He already blew up one of your pals in that crevice. And I've been in that copter. It goes a hell of a lot farther with two people than with ( beat ) Am I wrong? Give him a buzz.
KRISTEL: You've got my attention.
GABE: You've also got all the money. And I can show you how to get off the mountain with it. Right now.
THE HELICOPTER: thunders over Hal Travers FIRES down at Hal through the doorless pilot's side. Bullets kick up tufts of snow at Hal's heels as he runs down into a steep, sloping wooded area. The tree cover is too thick for Travers to take good aim. Looks like temporary refuge but
HAL: who's still running down the grade he hasn't been hit yet, but there's an awful lot of bad luck in the air
TRAVERS: banks the helicopter around and up for another pass.
THE RABBIT: that spooked Gabe earlier sticks its head up for a curious sniff. It has the tracer fastened to its neck with a currency band. Furious, Qualen FIRES at the rabbit it safely speeds away as Qualen smashes the useless tracer monitor and turns EXT. TRAVERS IN HELICOPTER - TRAVERS POV On the heat scope. The blip that represents Hal vanishes. Delmer, who has caught up, is at the edge of the tree-lined area he looks up at Travers.
TRAVERS: ( keying headset radio ) He's hiding twenty yards in be
TRAVERS: ( keying headset radio ) He's right behind you!
DELMER: whirls around at the warning, his gun BLAZING, but Hal is too fast he swings the sign like a club, knocking Delmer's gun away into the snow. Before Hal can swing again, Delmer brutally punches Hal in the face stunned, Hal drops the IN HELICOPTER - TRAVERS POV Travers can't do anything now but watch the heat scope as if it were a video game now it's just one big blip
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) Something's moving fast down the hill is it Tucker?
HAL: has found Delmer's fallen headset radio and put it on.
IN HELICOPTER: Happy at last, Travers takes off after the blip, flying down the incline and staying just above the trees, strafing an intense fusillade at
DELMER: who's screaming as a storm of bullets rip through him and the sign and the surrounding snow, keeping pace with his downhill TRAVERS IN HELICOPTER FIRES until his clip is empty he heads for the end of the tree line as his target comes out, skidding to a stop in the snow. Travers gleefully moves lower down for a closer look but is shocked to see
HAL: is hiding his body "heat" under a rock formation.
IN HELICOPTER: Stymied, Travers furiously banks it away from the wooded area and circles around the mountain's other side.
KRISTEL: How much further?
GABE: ( stops ) It's right over there.
A SHED: that is partially obscured by snow, about twenty feet distant across a snowy plateau.
GABE: It's a storage locker for the rangers. Everything you need to get off the mountain is in there skiis, food I'll show you
KRISTEL: Don't move.
KRISTEL: Skiis, food and maybe guns too, Keep walking. Not too close.
GABE: We'd make better time walking straight ahead. Qualen's not going to be hopping down the bunny trail too much Right. So I'd better have one less problem when he arrives.
KRISTEL: ( walking backward ) Right. So I'd better have one less problem when he arrives.
GABE: ( knowing this means him ) Don't fuck up. You still need me to show you a route off the mountain.
KRISTEL: You've worn that one out, Walker I'll find my own way down.
ON GABE: who's had to drop flat on his stomach to avoid the same fate as he scrambles back to solid land, Kristel's SHOTS arc up through the snow toward him, and the snow crumbles around him but he bellies ahead as
THE "SHED": that was obscured by snow was a tall, three-sided park service sign shouting "WARNING SNOWDRIFT DO NOT CROSS" in eight different languages. The rest of the snow falls away from it, revealing a cautionary but cheesy illustration a stick-figure fatally sinking into the snow.
GABE: bellies ahead, flat on his stomach, testing the snow with the ice axe's staff only when he hits something solid with it does he get back up to his feet. But the sound of ice-crusted snow CRUNCHING above Gabe alerts him that
QUALEN: has just hit the top of the slope and spotted him Qualen's gun BLAZES down
GABE: is on the run, but it's that lead-footed, slow motion stuff that only happens in nightmares with every step, a foot breaks through the icy crust and sinks into two feet of snow Gabe stays just ahead of the barrage, making it into
QUALEN: arrives where Gabe was and looks down the slope
QUALEN: starts running down the slope he doesn't have speed, but he does have the machine gun he FIRES short bursts at
GABE: who tries to steer away from the line of fire Gabe is hit in the shoulder he slides out of control, and rolls down to the slope's bottom. Gabe painfully lifts himself up and moves through the woods, coming out of the trees to
THE LAKE: The bridge that spans it is ahead of Gabe but there is nothing around but flat terrain. It's a beautiful sight, but no good for hiding. And Qualen is right behind him.
MAGGIE: hears the helicopter, and turns around she has no way of knowing it isn't Frank, so she takes off her jacket and waves it as a signal
MAGGIE: Frank! Down here!
TRAVERS: is at the controls.
MAGGIE: starts running, but it's useless. Nowhere to hide. Travers hovers over her, FIRING ahead of her, FIRING behind her, not to kill, just to make a point. He's in charge.
TRAVERS: Hop in. I know someone who'd like to see you again before he dies.
QUALEN: Smiles and shakes his head. Too obvious. Gabe is hiding underneath the bridge, in the three foot deep network of steel supports. Qualen slows his pace, staring down through the thin, but visible cracks between the planks.
QUALEN: enjoying himself, slams a fresh clip into his machine gun.
QUALEN: If you were smart, you'd have left your friend behind. I would have. There's no shame in staying alive.
QUALEN: ( aims down ) But you're not smart. And now you're going to die from an overdose of
QUALEN: stops firing and kicks away the planks, which are a tangle of toothpicks at this point Qualen bends down and sees there's nothing in the parka except for Gabe's back. Qualen's face registers anger and surprise as Gabe appears at the edge of the hole before Qualen can react, Gabe swings up with his ice axe, hooking it around the shoulder strap of Qualen's machine gun Gabe yanks down, and Qualen falls head first
QUALEN: ( wiping the gash ) Stalemate, isn't it?
GABE: ( winded ) Not any more.
QUALEN: Far more intimidating when it's
GABE: quickly reacts, jumping onto another bed-sized chunk of ice floating by, landing on his stomach and braking himself by digging his crampons in just as
QUALEN: realizing what deep shit he's in, looks for another chunk of ice to make the same move to sees one just out of reach. Qualen pulls the ice axe out of the raft's center to drag the other chunk closer in as he does, the entire raft disintegrates under him Qualen plunges into the water, and tries to maintain a slippery grip on what ice is left but now at the center of the whirlpool, Qualen is drawn into the vortex
GABE: struggles to his feet and looks down, wincing
GABE: has no time to celebrate the chunk of ice he's on leaves him moments from the same fate. One more time around, and it's down the drain. Gabe takes a deep breath. No choice. He WIDER VIEW - THE ICE - GABE LEAPING from one chunk of ice to the other, running the way you would across stones in a stream, zig-zagging to catch the ones big enough to support him only his crampons keep him from sliding off, only his momentum keeps him from capsizing the ice chunks, which shoots away from him in his wake
GABE: lands on an ice raft floating towards the bridge. No choice Gabe lunges off the ice raft and reaches for one of the bridge supports his hand catches but it's slippery and he's weakened Gabe slides off, but
A HAND: reaches down and grabs him
HAL: pulls Gabe the rest of the way onto the bridge. Gabe's surprise gives way to a grin almost as big as Hal's.
HAL: ( eyeing Gabe's ruined Nice outfit. ( hands him his parka ) I know you never liked the orange, but
GABE: Didn't care for the Smokey The Bear hats, either. That's why I quit. You all right?
HAL: I feel better than you look. I can live with that.
GABE: Hardly seems worth zipping, huh? It's not over, Gabe. Travers took the
HAL: It's not over, Gabe. Travers took the
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) Qualen Kristel come in
GABE: May I? They can't talk right now, Travers. Kristel's busy making snow angels and I'm not sure, but I think Qualen is still falling. Any messages?
GABE: ( keying it )
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) You wanted to make a trade earlier, Walker still interested?
HAL: Now what?
GABE: I have no fucking idea. Not for long.
HAL: ( smiling ) Not for long.
GABE: ( sagging against rail ) Why can't anything be easy?
THE HELICOPTER: thunders around the mountain wall, getting closer
GABE: Stay over there
HAL: Look let me
GABE: what, throw snowballs at him? Just whatever happens get Maggie out of here.
HAL: ( relenting ) Count on it. ( beat ) And Gabe? Thanks for tagging along.
GABE: ( smiles ) Thanks for asking. I forgot how much I enjoyed rescue work.
THE HELICOPTER: blasts along the wall towards the lake the waterfall and the ladder are just ahead. The copter radio crackles
GABE: ( over radio ) Remember that bet you made? About whether I could find the money for you or not? ( holds pack over drop ) You won.
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) I'll kill her
GABE: ( over radio ) You do, and the spring thaw's going to be worth thirty million bucks. ( pause ) No rush. I'm sure you've got lots of ( into radio ) All right. Drop the gun first.
TRAVERS: ( into radio ) All right. Drop the gun first.
GABE: ( into radio ) When she's safe on the ground.
TRAVERS: ( to Maggie ) Get out.
GABE: ( shouting ) ( she doesn't ) ( into radio ) Now come and get it. My arm's getting
GABE: ( into radio ) Now come and get it. My arm's getting
GABE: ( shouting ) Don't you want to count it?
THE PACK: The $5000s are there but they've been shredded by Qualen's earlier blast of gunfire. Few, if any, of the bills are passable.
TRAVERS: stares down, incredulous as he does
GABE: rips open a perforated section of parka and yanks his bolt gun from his waist Travers looks up and raises his gun at Gabe but Gabe fires first the bolt imbeds itself high in Travers' chest. Gasping, Travers drops his gun it falls over the pack and out the open door Travers clutches at his chest
GABE: Don't spend it all in one place, you son of a bitch.
THE HELICOPTER: quickly begins to spiral down in wide, aimless circles Travers has clearly lost control
GABE: stares down coldly, waiting for the crash but
THE HELICOPTER: tops the precipice edge and, sweeping low over the snow, it gets between Gabe and the trees, cutting him off
HAL: He's going to run Gabe down
THE HELICOPTER: with its skids skipping just over the snow overtakes
GABE: as he throws himself flat into the snow the front of the skid misses Gabe by inches as it blasts over him
THE HELICOPTER: moves out over the precipice edge Travers banks it wide to circle back around for another run
GABE: gets back up as the helicopter swings back behind him
THE HELICOPTER: has circled back around, stopping at a hover far back in the clearing Travers intends to not just run Gabe over, but to run him off the edge as well
GABE: lumbers as fast as he can towards the edge
TRAVERS: knows he has Gabe nailed he shoves the stick forward
THE HELICOPTER: flies forward, skids just inches over the snow
HAL: runs out to where Travers is heading he lights the cloth in the ammo clip as
THE HELICOPTER: flies past
THE "FUSE": sputters out nothing but glowing embers in the cloth
TRAVERS: smiles nothing to worry about he speeds ahead
GABE: as he runs toward the mountain's edge it's just a couple of feet ahead, but the copter is a couple of feet behind as the copter overtakes Gabe, dipping even lower into the snow, he dives off the edge
THE HELICOPTER: skid meant to impale Gabe catches the top two rungs of the cable ladder
THE HELICOPTER: still strains against the cable ladder but the engine goes dead the rotor blades slow
GABE: is shaken off by the massive impact he falls landing on the helicopter, half in and half out of the cockpit! As Gabe scrambles for a solid hold
THE HELICOPTER: slips, now hanging from just a single rung and the impact of the slip makes Travers drop the gun it falls out the open passenger door. Travers scrambles up through the cabin to go after Gabe, who is trying to get off the helicopter and onto a solid part of the ladder before the whole thing goes down Gabe jumps for the wall as Travers scrambles behind him and
GABE: grabs hold of the ladder as
THE HELICOPTER: plummets down but as it starts its fall
TRAVERS: leaps from the falling copter and grabs Gabe's leg Gabe struggles to support both of them, but Travers, weakened from his wound, loses his grip on Gabe's leg he stares up in terror at Gabe as he clutches Gabe's snow-slick boot
GABE: Cheer up. It's a beautiful spot to
GABE: looks down at the burning wreck and clings to the ladder, closing his eyes for a moment in exhaustion. But the WHOPPING of another helicopter makes him look up
WRIGHT: I'm no expert but what do you make of that "event"?
GABE: is drained from somewhere, he finds the strength to lift his head up
GABE: leans back, gripping the ladder, too tired to move. Just the thought of one more climb drains him.
GABE: ( mumbling ) Forget it. No fucking way. I'm staying right here. I've spent the night on walls before some of the best nights of my life have been spent lashed to walls
HAL: Remember keep your arms and legs in the vehicle at all times
GABE: puts the loop around himself and tightens it by rote even this action aches.
GABE: ( too tired to shout ) Fuck you
HAL: ( winded, coiling the Jesus Christ you think you could have put a little less effort into that climb? I mean, what have you done for me lately?
MAGGIE: Does this mean you're staying?
