FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY Old age should burn and rave at close of day; Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Nice guys finish last.
PURPOSES ONLY: Old age should burn and rave at close of day; Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Nice guys finish last.
MAN: lies on a couch near the window. He stands up suddenly and looks out the window. AL STUMP, 40, is sharply dressed tie, dress shirt, cufflinks. He's staring at HIS POV - COURTYARD BELOW - BEAUTIFUL BRUNETTE in high heels crosses the courtyard. She glances up toward Stump, then quickly turns away and disappears.
STUMP: The muse has not descended, The muse has not descended. God damn it, Lucille, you hear me?
LUCILLE: The muse has not descended.
STUMP: Yes! The muse has left me stranded here like a beached whale only one phrase, one word, from finishing the greatest essay I've ever written! One word, the right word Flaubert called it 'le mot juste' I ever tell you that?
LUCILLE: 'Le mot juste' the exact right word the writer needs to tell his story. Yessir, you've mentioned Hemingway, Faulkner, Joyce they all searched for 'le mot juste' until they cried, until they bled.
STUMP: Hemingway, Faulkner, Joyce they all searched for 'le mot juste' until they cried, until they bled.
LUCILLE: What is this essay about again?
STUMP: What is this essay about again?
LUCILLE: I mean what is it really about?
STUMP: I mean what is it really about?
LUCILLE: You said it was about the quote unquote primal issues of survival, man against nature, etcetera that's what you said.
STUMP: Ohyeah. so. we end the essay 'The tarpon leaps shimmering into the late cross light of the keys, a primeval moment frozen in. . frozen in'.
LUCILLE: Shimmering tarpon very good, Mr. Stump. . 'frozen in' what?
STUMP: ( patiently ) I don't know, Lucille, that's what the Muse will tell me if she ever ( considering ) . 'frozen in'.
LUCILLE: Yes? Yes? Just a minute, I'll see if he's available. It's your wife are you and she speaking again?
STUMP: I dunno. How does she sound?
LUCILLE: Don't ask me to interpret.
STUMP: Tell her. tell her. I'll talk. no. tell her I'm out I'll call her later. God damn it.
LUCILLE: ( on phone ) Apparently he's out, Mrs. Stump I'll have him call you back.
STUMP: I need a drink.
LUCILLE: What about 'le mot juste,' Mr. Fuck 'le mot juste,' Lucille! Finish the damn thing yourself. 'The primeval moment is frozen in' whatever the hell you want it to be. Did you know that James Joyce let his secretary none other than Samuel Beckett revise and edit Molly's solliloquy in Ulysses? You're my Beckett I give you 'le mot juste!' Just get the damn thing in the mail so I can get paid. Problems with the Mrs.?
STUMP: ( snaps ) Fuck 'le mot juste,' Lucille! Finish the damn thing yourself. 'The primeval moment is frozen in' whatever the hell you want it to be. Did you know that James Joyce let his secretary none other than Samuel Beckett revise and edit Molly's solliloquy in Ulysses? You're my Beckett I give you 'le mot juste!' Just get the damn thing in the mail so I can get paid. Problems with the Mrs.?
LUCILLE: Problems with the Mrs.?
STUMP: I don't know. I need a drink.
FRANK: Hey, Stumpy.
STUMP: Awright, awright. how do you get five old ladies to say 'fuck?'
CRONIES: ( stumped ) Jeez, I dunno, how? Etc.
STUMP: Yell 'bingo.'
REYNALDO: Okay, I got one A drunk is taking a piss in front of a bar, a bus drives by, real fast right along the curb, and knocks his thing off. Drunk picks up his thing, puts it in his pocket, goes into a bar, reaches into his pocket and puts his thing on the bar. 'Look't that,' he says, 'bus knocked my thing off.' Bartender says, 'that ain't your thing that's a cigar butt.'
FRANK: Amidst this levity, gentlemen, I have some real concerns. Mark my words, people will look back on this year and say that 1960 was the year that Western Civilization began its downward trajectory.
BILL: You need to get laid, Frank.
FRANK: Guys, guys, c'mon. do you really think things are as good as they used to be? You think Jack Kennedy is qualified to be Kennedy may not be qualified, but Jackie's a babe and that's good enough for me.
BILL: Kennedy may not be qualified, but Jackie's a babe and that's good enough for me.
REYNALDO: They're a happily married couple and that oughta stand for something these days.
MUD: Speaking of being happily married, Al, are you and your old lady still having problems?
STUMP: Oh no, the wife and I are all patched up doin' fantastic.
CRONIES: Good to hear. awright. way to go, Stumpy. ( Etc. )
FRANK: I mean look at us we call ourselves writers but we just watch ballgames and get drunk a lot. You call that writing?
STUMP: Yes I do.
MUD: In the department store of life, sports is the toy department so what?
BILL: Yeah, besides, Alan here's writing a serious novel, aren't ya?
MUD: Yeah, well I haven't started yet but I'm gonna. I've been busy.
FRANK: You guys are pathetic. Ya write for one reason a paycheck.
STUMP: More art was created for money than for passion. Take your platitudes and shove 'em, Frank. I'm gonna write a novel too, The Great American Novel, I It could come from my pen.
FRANK: ( cynically ) The Great American Novel, I It could come from my pen.
STUMP: It could come from my pen.
FRANK: You're a barbershop writer, Al you write sugar-coated pieces for guys to skim when they're waiting for a haircut!
STUMP: Awright, that's it! Let's go! Settle this right here!
MUD: A scuffle breaks out, a lot of posturing, feinting, but they're all too chicken to do anything. Nobody wants to A PHONE RINGS at the bar. The bartender answers the phone, shouts at the obnoxious sportwriters.
REYNALDO: Stump! For you.
STUMP: ( to Frank ) Phone call saved your ass.
STUMP: ( on phone ) Yeah. yeah. who?. no. you're kidding?. when?
STUMP: ( as they ignore Shut up!
STUMP: Cobb wants to see me.
MUD: Cobb who?
STUMP: Ty Cobb! How many Cobbs are
FRANK: Ty Cobb? I thought he was dead?
STUMP: Not yet. He said he wants to tell me the real story of his life before he croaks.
BILL: You were just talking to Ty Cobb?
STUMP: The Georgia Peach himself.
FRANK: They say Cobb is crazy. The meanest sonofabitch who ever I heard he killed a man.
MUD: I heard he killed a man.
BILL: Maybe so, but he was the greatest baseball player of them Yeah, the best, no one close,
CRONIES: Yeah, the best, no one close,
FRANK: Listen, Al, be careful
STUMP: I ain't gettin' my ass shot, don't No, not that the story. This is like Ivan the Terrible inviting somebody into the Czar's palace before he died.
FRANK: No, not that the story. This is like Ivan the Terrible inviting somebody into the Czar's palace before he died.
STUMP: Except Ivan was a nicer guy.
FRANK: ( concerned, earnest ) Don't let Cobb bullshit you. This is your shot. This is all our ( as cronies agree ) When does he want to see you?
STUMP: CUT TO:
STUMP: POV SHOT THROUGH WINDSHIELD A dismal, wet and obscured view of the mountain road, climbing higher into the Sierras. A small roadside gas station comes INTO VIEW, and Stump pulls his car into the station.
STUMP: Fill it up and replace the wiper blades.
JONAH: You got it.
STUMP: Colder than a witch's tit, eh?
JONAH: It's just starting. We got three- four feet of snow another thousand feet up. Where ya going? Skiing? I hate skiing.
STUMP: Actually, I'm going to meet Ty Cobb.
JONAH: Cobb?! He stopped here for gas once, I asked him for an autograph for my boy and he told me to shove it where the sun don't shine.
STUMP: I hear he's got a way with kids.
STUMP: Hey, baby, it's me. Al. your husband. I'm up in the woods somewhere on Listen, sweetheart, listen nobody can love you the way I love you and I want you to take me back. I made a mistake. Okay, lots of mistakes. I know I'm not worthy.
STUMP: Honey? Sweetheart? Baby?
WILLIE: Fuck you, Mr. Cobb, I have too much dignity to spend another moment with you. I hope you die before the sun comes up and may you rot in hell! The man whirls and is shocked to see Stump standing there with his own suitcase.
WILLIE: Who are you?
STUMP: I'm a writer.
WILLIE: You mean he actually found somebody to take the job? Willie bursts out into crazed laughter, as if the world of Cobb was finally too absurd. Cobb and a writer? In this weather? In any weather? And the man walks through the rain, laughing, heading on foot down off the mountain as Stump just stares. Stump turns and steps into the open doorway.
STUMP: Mr. Cobb?
STUMP: Mr. Cobb?
STUMP: Hello? Mr. Cobb?
STUMP: Thank you very much, Mr. Cobb, but I don't need this job that Yes, Mr. Stump you do need this job that bad.
COBB: Yes, Mr. Stump you do need this job that bad.
COBB: On the violin Fritz Kreisler. I'm a great admirer of his. I'm also a great admirer of yours.
STUMP: Thank you.
COBB: But you are a hopeless romantic and only a moderate success.
STUMP: Sir, I am the most successful sportswriter in America and not merely a 'moderate success.'
COBB: Of course. Give me those pills over there.
COBB: That's an invitation to a testimonial dinner at the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. You're taking me there when is it?
STUMP: ( looking at the letter ) A few weeks.
COBB: All the great ones will be there The great Mickey Cochrane will be there! Hornsby, Sisler, Ott, the Waner Brothers. we used to have some parties, Stump, I'll tell ya that right now. We can't forget.
STUMP: I won't forget.
COBB: Look at me closely, Al. Lie after lie has been written about me my whole life I've been misunderstood. You're gonna tell the real story of Ty Cobb.
STUMP: What's the 'real' story?
COBB: That's why you're here. See, there's two kinds of writers. The kind that spin endless yarns about small subjects. that's you.
COBB: ( suddenly bellowing ) Jameson! Get your ass up here!
STUMP: You okay?
COBB: 19 POV SHOT - WOODS IN MOONLIGHT 19
COBB: There's a small oil company near Bakersfield called Honolulu Oil, sitting near the Elk Hills I want you to buy all the stock you can.
JAMESON: Honolulu Oil?
COBB: Getty is expanding in the west, looking for companies like that. I got a hunch. Stumpy, c'mere.
COBB: I can take that buck. What'ya With a pistol? No way.
STUMP: With a pistol? No way.
COBB: ( to Jameson ) There's a board meeting of Coca-Cola in Georgia next week. Call them up and tell them I can't make it for medical ( correcting personal reasons. ( beat ) . and sell all the 3-M stock we got.
COBB: Got him.
STUMP: Like hell you did.
COBB: Right behind the ear.
STUMP: You're full of shit.
COBB: If Mr. Cobb said he got him, then he got him.
JAMESON: If Mr. Cobb said he got him, then he got him.
COBB: You have no vision, Stump. A writer without vision is a waste of my time. I think I picked the wrong man. And I think I better get back to San Francisco before the storm hits. I'll take care of these transactions, Mr. Cobb.
JAMESON: And I think I better get back to San Francisco before the storm hits. I'll take care of these transactions, Mr. Cobb.
STUMP: And I'll be leaving as well, sir, since you think I'm the wrong man for the job.
COBB: Shut up, Stump we both know that I'm your meal ticket. We need each other. And we start in the morning.
STUMP: ( calmly )
COBB: ( calmly )
STUMP: Ready, Mr. Cobb.
COBB: Chapter one, Page one.
STUMP: I'm ready.
COBB: 'Know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day.'
STUMP: What the hell is that?
COBB: That's what Robert E. Lee said at the burial of my grandfather who was a Confederate General killed at Fredricksburg.
STUMP: So I'm taking notes?
COBB: Hell no. That's the first line of my autobiography.
STUMP: I ain't writing it.
COBB: Why not?
STUMP: It's horseshit. It's a third person comment about someone who's already dead. An autobiography has to be in the first person plus it can't come from the other side of the God damn grave.
COBB: My story can come from any damn place I want.
STUMP: Not to mention you can't call yourself 'a prince and great man' that's for the world to decide.
COBB: What kind of a fucking writer you call yourself all tied up in rules and regulations. What's the point being a writer if you can't say what you want to?
STUMP: You're not treating me like a writer you're treating me like a stenographer.
STUMP: Know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day.
COBB: It has a certain ring to it.
STUMP: Yes it does.
COBB: I thought you might like it. It's yours, a gift from me. 'Cobb, a prince among men, misunderstood in his genius, as genius always is' - This is the second line from what will be the greatest biography of a great man ever written type
COBB: Bethlehem Steel's about to dive. Jameson. Bethlehem's going in the toilet. Dump it all!
COBB: ( on phone ) Jameson. Bethlehem's going in the toilet. Dump it all!
STUMP: You got a stock tip for me?
COBB: Yeah. buy Coca-Cola. We're about to go out in cans.
STUMP: Coke in cans? I don't think so.
COBB: You know what's wrong with Ty Every disease known to man I got 'em all! And they'll never get me in a hospital never! My heart leaks the doctors who are nothin' but a buncha hacksaw artists give me Digoxin to keep it
STUMP: ( proudly ) Every disease known to man I got 'em all! And they'll never get me in a hospital never! ( beat ) My heart leaks the doctors who are nothin' but a buncha hacksaw artists give me Digoxin to keep it
COBB: ( proudly ) Every disease known to man I got 'em all! And they'll never get me in a hospital never! ( beat ) My heart leaks the doctors who are nothin' but a buncha hacksaw artists give me Digoxin to keep it
COBB: They give me Darvon for the cancer in my back, they give me Tace for something eatin' up my stomach, Fleets Compound for an infection in my bowels, Librium for my tension, insulin for my diabetes.
COBB: Fuckin' insulin.
COBB: And if all that wasn't enough, it's been two years since I got my pecker in the air. The South may not rise again but my dick will.
COBB: ( barks ) I ain't here!
STUMP: ( answering the phone ) Cobb's residence. hello. ( beat ) He's not here who's calling? Ernie? Ernie who? ( his face drops ) My God. ( to Cobb ) It's Ernest Hemingway. for you.
COBB: Tell him to go to hell!
STUMP: Jesus Christ, Ty, this is the great American writer this is the man who inspired me to become a writer!
COBB: Tell him to go to hell anyway.
STUMP: Him and me used to be pals but we went on a hunting trip once and he hired a shitty guide.
COBB: Him and me used to be pals but we went on a hunting trip once and he hired a shitty guide.
STUMP: That's it? You didn't like a guide he hired?
COBB: You tell him to go fuck himself or I'll kick your Yankee ass! Mr. Hemingway? Mr. Cobb says. to go to hell. By the way I'm a big fan of
STUMP: Mr. Hemingway? Mr. Cobb says. to go to hell. By the way I'm a big fan of
COBB: Hemingway isn't a bullfighter he wrote about bullfighting. What the hell is that?! Bullshit. Damn painkillers.
STUMP: Ty, you okay?
COBB: It'll pass. Stumpy, listen to me you know what I need?
STUMP: What do you need?
COBB: I need a woman. A woman is definitely what I
STUMP: My God.
COBB: We're going to Reno. I want a There's a blizzard out there!
STUMP: There's a blizzard out there!
COBB: When a man wants a woman, a man wants a woman.
STUMP: Let's just put on some soup, build a fire, and we can work on the How cozy. I got 25 thousand in cash and negotiable securities in here. Don't let it out of your sight.
COBB: How cozy. I got 25 thousand in cash and negotiable securities in here. Don't let it out of your sight.
STUMP: Look, Ty, the roads are impassable.
COBB: You lead, I'll follow.
STUMP: I'm not driving in this stuff!
COBB: I need a woman!
COBB: You call that driving, Alice?! My sister can drive faster than that! Step on it!
COBB: Get off the road ya can't drive any faster?! Move it!
STUMP: Fuck you! I ain't dying in this God damn ice cube!
COBB: ( muttering ) The man drives like an old woman.
COBB: Drive, motherfucker, drive!
STUMP: struggles to see through the windshield snow is swirling everywhere.
STUMP'S POV: Cobb's car disappears into the blizzard, fishtailing as it goes.
STUMP: 39 EXT. HIGHWAY 39 40 CLOSE ON STUMP 40
STUMP: ( to himself ) He's a goner, Al, save your own God damn ass.
STUMP: Stump plows his way on foot down the embankment, fighting bad footing and snowdrifts, until He arrives at the car Surely nobody could survive this. With difficulty, he makes his way to the back door of the huge car and wrestles it open. Stump sticks the top half of his body into the car.
STUMP: Cobb lies upside down, ass in the air, his face buried under the dash of the car. There's blood on his face.
COBB: It's about fucking time you got here!
STUMP: You've alive? I wouldn't call it living but it'll do. Help me outta here.
COBB: I wouldn't call it living but it'll do. Help me outta here.
STUMP: There's blood!
COBB: Of course there's blood! I just put my head through the windshield of a car, what the hell ya think, ya big fucking jerk.
STUMP: Shut up!
COBB: Ty Cobb can't die like this! They'll bury me and nobody'll know who it is!
STUMP: I said shut up. Look't that! No guard rail! I'm suing the State Highway Commission, I'm suing the Governor, I'm suing every God damn body! I coulda been killed!
COBB: Look't that! No guard rail! I'm suing the State Highway Commission, I'm suing the Governor, I'm suing every God damn body! I coulda been killed!
STUMP: God damn it, shut up and get in the car!
COBB: Gimme your keys, I'm driving.
STUMP: I'm driving.
COBB: Do you know how to get to Reno? Hell, no! I'm driving.
STUMP: Over my dead body!
COBB: Your call.
STUMP: You miserable son of a bitch. You coward, you pathetic, frightened, desperate old man you can't do anything without that gun and frankly it doesn't impress me to keep flashing it because I know you're not gonna shoot me 'cause you need me worse than I need you. What, you're gonna kill me?
COBB: I've killed a man.
STUMP: Fine, then put me outta my fuckin' misery. I'm freezing.
COBB: Here ya go, Stumpy. I like a man who stands up to me.
COBB: Now give me the keys. I'm
COBB: It's only another hour plenty of time to tell you my story before we find us some women.
STUMP: Women? Plural?
COBB: Some for you, some for me. We'll have a helluva time. The broads're probably lining up right now, waiting for ol' Ty and his buddy Stump.
STUMP: ( muttering ) Dear God.
COBB: I suppose you want to know about my childhood. Writers usually do.
STUMP: None of this 'know ye that a prince and great man has fallen' My philosophy is simply this Life is too short to be diplomatic. A man's friends shouldn't mind what he does or says, and those who are not his friends, well, to hell with 'em. And Cobb drifts into a story of his youth. He's suddenly so relaxed that he pays little attention to the road.
COBB: My philosophy is simply this Life is too short to be diplomatic. A man's friends shouldn't mind what he does or says, and those who are not his friends, well, to hell with 'em. And Cobb drifts into a story of his youth. He's suddenly so relaxed that he pays little attention to the road.
COBB: I was born in a small town in Georgia, of course. my sweet sister Florence still lives
CONGREGATION: ( sings loudly ) 'There is a fountain filled with Drawn from Emmanuel's veins.'
NEW ANGLE: Closer and closer the engine comes 50 yards, 25 yards, 10, five, four, three. moments before death Young Ty Cobb leaps to safety, flying in front of the engine, out over the water till he splashes, mere milli- seconds before he would have been crushed to death. Young Cobb surfaces in the river and waves his arms in triumph. His pals shriek with delight and embrace him at his courage.
COBB: My father died in a terrible accident, you know.
STUMP: No, I didn't, really.
COBB: Didn't you do your research on me before you came up here?
STUMP: I didn't have time. I mean, I knew the basics.
COBB: Then you've read that I'm the meanest bastard of them all?
STUMP: People have said that, yes.
COBB: I don't care what people think.
STUMP: Then why do you care what I write?
COBB: I am who I tell you I am! Why are you making things so That's what writers do.
STUMP: That's what writers do.
COBB: Well writers oughta make things simple! Everything's complicated enough as it is.
STUMP: ( mutters ) Maybe you're right!
COBB: Of course I'm right!
STUMP: A snow-covered truck in the middle of the road, broken down and abandoned, is on top of us.
STUMP: Cobb spins the wheel The car spins out of control, just missing the truck, and hurtling on down the icy Stump is in sheer terror by this time.
COBB: Don't shout like that, Stumpy it just increases my tension. I saw that truck all along you think I'm gonna hit a truck when I'm getting close to finding me some women?
COBB: My father was murdered, y'know.
STUMP: Your father was murdered?
COBB: I mean that's the sort of thing you're looking for, isn't it? Murdered on the balcony of his own house. the house I grew up
STUMP: Your father was murdered? How come nobody knows about this?
COBB: The oldtimers in Royston know about it. Nobody else's business. It happened when I was 17, a few days before Detroit called me up.
STUMP: But this helps explain why
COBB: Why I'm such a prick? Ha! That's too easy you're a better writer than that
STUMP: Was the killer ever caught?
COBB: There was an arrest, a trial, and an acquittal. Nobody was ever Jesus Christ
STUMP: Jesus Christ
COBB: Aw, don't go sob-sister on me, The only thing that finally matters is a man's accomplishments and I must say, in all humility, Al, in all humility I was the greatest ballplayer of all time. Nobody is even a close second.
COBB: Single to left, steal second, steal third, steal home.
GAMBLER: Eight to one.
COBB: Fuck you!
GAMBLER: Ten to one.
COBB: You're on.
COBB: Hey, greaseball, check your wife one of the players is missing!
COBB: Who the hell ever signed you?
TEAMMATE: Go to hell.
COBB: Hey, Cyclops, you're missing a good game.
UMPIRE: Shut up, Cobb.
COBB: Here ya go.
COBB: Your old lady left 'em in my car last night I thought you could give 'em back to her.
CATCHER: You're going down, Cobb.
COBB: Let's go.
COBB: ( to the pitcher ) That's as hard as you can throw?! Shit, it that was my fastball I'd wear a dress!
COBB: Hey, Wagner! I'd shade me a little up the middle if I was You try to take my head off then you throw a sinker away, in and out, same old shit sinker
COBB: ( to catcher ) You try to take my head off then you throw a sinker away, in and out, same old shit sinker
NEW ANGLE: Here comes the pitch sinker away and Cobb unleashes a swing that is at once quick and powerful. He drives the ball to left, the opposite way Wagner lunges to his right But the ball skips into Cobb streaks to first and rounds the base viciously, daring to stretch it into a double but slamming on the brakes and returning to first when the throw rifles into second. Cobb shouts defiantly at the pitcher.
COBB: You God damn coward! You shoulda thrown at me again! You shoulda hit me in the fucking head!
COBB: Hey, Krauthead, I'm coming down.
NEW ANGLE: The pitcher stretches, looks and delivers and Cobb breaks for second. The pitch is wide. The Catcher fires. Wagner takes the throw as Cobb arrives in a spikes-up And Wagner swipes a brutal tag in Cobb's face his giant ham of a hand in the tiny glove clutching the ball lashes across Cobb's mouth. Blood gushes. The ball pops free. Wagner seems unbothered by the fact that Cobb is safe at second he has bloodied Cobb's face. Cobb seems unboth- ered by the fact that his face is a bloody mess he has stolen second. Both men seem satisfied.
PITCHER: Stretches and delivers Cobb takes off for third. The throw is high he slides in safely.
IN STANDS: Bets are doubled. The stands are full of wagering. The whole ballpark is like a giant saloon drinking, smoking, wagering and the game is played by thugs and COBB ON THIRD Yells at the pitcher and Catcher.
COBB: You want in on the action? My mother has a better arm than you! I'm coming to you, greaseball! Coming to kick your dago ass!
CATCHER: steals a glance at Cobb who takes a menacing lead off third. The Catcher gives a signal to the pitcher.
PITCHER: nods, winds up, and as he does Here comes Cobb with a recklessness beyond reason. And as the pitch arrives in the Catcher's hands, the Catcher digs in to take on Cobb Cobb slides spikes high, flying above the earth, his back leg slashing his spikes like knives. It is a slide of utter defiance and violence, a slide intended to harm. A vicious collision between Cobb and the catcher blood and dust. The ball rolls free. Safe. Cobb and the catcher immediately start punching and in seconds, a brawl breaks out, both benches clearing. As the police rush out to break up the brawl.
FAN #1: You're a shit, Cobb!
FAN #2: I hate your guts, Cobb!
COBB: A good day to you, too, sir.
COBB: After World War Two, General Patton asked me for an autograph he said he patterned himself after me! Are you getting this?
STUMP: I'll remember.
COBB: Why aren't you writing?!
STUMP: 'Cause I'm trying to have a good grip on things when this car goes over the next cliff! I ain't ready to die yet! Cobb's tone changes suddenly he questions Stump with- out guile or anger, as if his answer is obvious.
COBB: But neither am I. Cobb stares at Stump, waiting for an answer, and forgets about the road. Stump looks up in fear and points at the road.
STUMP: Cobb swerves wildly back onto the road, such as it exists in the blizzard.
COBB: I said I'm not ready to die.
STUMP: Then watch the fucking road.
COBB: But you're not listening to me! I may have every God damn disease known to man but I am never going to check into a hospital because I am alive and I am going to get laid in Reno!
STUMP: Maybe I don't wanta get laid!
COBB: You queer?!
STUMP: I'm married.
COBB: I thought you were divorced.
STUMP: We're in the middle of a. problem. We're talking.
COBB: Talking my ass! Quit hanging on get a divorce. Is that why you don't wanta get laid in Reno? 'Cause you're feeling loyal to a woman you're divorcing? That's really stupid, Stumpy.
STUMP: I'm not getting a divorce. I'm being loyal.
COBB: Is that why you used to wine and dine that little brunette who had an office across the courtyard from you in Santa Barbara?
STUMP: What do you know about her?!
COBB: I do my homework, Stumpy. I know where the bodies are buried.
STUMP: ( defensively ) It didn't last long!
COBB: Hey, no need to defend yourself. When it comes to women I'm a total shit the difference is, Stumpy, that I know I'm a shit.
STUMP: Nobody knows about the brunette.
COBB: Our little secret, huh? And that part about me being a shit with women? That ain't gonna be in the book.
STUMP: I gotta put your family in my Your book?! My book! And nothing about my ex-wives or children are gonna be in it. My book is about My book is about Cobb!
COBB: Your book?! My book! And nothing about my ex-wives or children are gonna be in it. My book is about My book is about Cobb!
STUMP: My book is about Cobb!
COBB: Cobb is baseball!
STUMP: Ty! Look! It's a man!
COBB: Fuck him.
STUMP: Stop the car!
COBB: Whoever it is he's gotta be pretty stupid to be out in this shit.
STUMP: We're out in this shit!
STUMP: My God. it's you. Are you okay? I can't believe you found me.
STUMP: Let me help you to the car.
WILLIE: I told you that you'd only last one day with the bastard.
STUMP: Cobb's in the car. He's driving.
WILLIE: Mr. Cobb's in the car?
STUMP: ( CONTINUED )
WILLIE: Then I'm not getting in the car with that son of a bitch. I'd rather take my chances out here.
STUMP: You're coming!
WILLIE: ( muttering the whole He hates me. He hates black He fucking hates everybody. Don't give him the pleasure of dying out If dying out here gives him pleasure then I won't die out
STUMP: He fucking hates everybody. Don't give him the pleasure of dying out If dying out here gives him pleasure then I won't die out
WILLIE: If dying out here gives him pleasure then I won't die out
STUMP: Ty, it's Willie. We can give him a lift to town.
COBB: Bullshit! I ain't givin' no nigger a ride nowhere!
STUMP: Shut the fuck up and give him a Now who's the coward! You won't shoot me! You need me!
COBB: Now who's the coward! You won't shoot me! You need me!
STUMP: No. But I'm sure Willie would take great pleasure in it. You'll pay for this, Stumpy.
COBB: You'll pay for this, Stumpy.
STUMP: Say, Willie, you a baseball fan?
WILLIE: Who's the greatest ballplayer of all time, in your opinion?
STUMP: Who's the greatest ballplayer of all time, in your opinion?
WILLIE: Willie Mays, no doubt about it.
COBB: That nigger couldn't hold my jock!
STUMP: Excuse me, Mr. Cobb, the man is
WILLIE: And I'd say the second greatest player of all time is Jackie Robinson. or maybe Josh Shut up!!
COBB: Shut up!!
WILLIE: And of course, the greatest base runner of all time isn't riding in this car the fastest baseball player of all time was Cool Papa Bell Cool Papa would've easily broke all your stolen base Cool Papa was so fast that when he entered a hotel room and flipped the light switch off, he'd be asleep in bed before it got And then there's Satchel Paige.
COBB: Cool Papa was so fast that when he entered a hotel room and flipped the light switch off, he'd be asleep in bed before it got And then there's Satchel Paige.
WILLIE: Cool Papa was so fast that when he entered a hotel room and flipped the light switch off, he'd be asleep in bed before it got And then there's Satchel Paige.
STUMP: And then there's Satchel Paige.
WILLIE: Oh yeah, Satchel Paige could throw a porkchop past a wolf, Mr. Cobb, ol' Satchel woulda had you eatin' outta his hand, he woulda had you hittin' .220 and kissin' his black ass to boot.
COBB: Shut this man up!
WILLIE: The man with the gun does the talking, you wretched, old
STUMP: Ice! Slow down! Tyyyy!
COBB: Fucked up roads. They don't build highways like they used to.
WILLIE: Well, Mr. Cobb, thank you for a lift into town.
WILLIE: And you, sir, should leave this disgusting, wretched, sorry son of a bitch immediately. Good
STUMP: Two rooms, please. Stand back, you old farts. I'm in the middle of something The heat's on the blink and the mattress is lumpy I want a discount.
CLERK: Aw, c'mon, you always want a discount, Mona.
STUMP: Excuse me, I've gotta get him checked in. He's very sick.
RAMONA: We're all sick in the eyes of God but some of us still have
STUMP: Two rooms, next to each other.
CUT TO;: 74 INT. COBB'S ROOM - NIGHT 74
COBB: ( barely audible ) My money.
STUMP: Your money's okay, Ty, right My gun.
COBB: My gun.
STUMP: Your gun's okay, too. right
COBB: We haven't missed the testimonial dinner, have we?
STUMP: No we haven't missed the dinner.
COBB: Good, good.
STUMP: ( on phone ) Hello? Happy Birthday! It's your Daddy! Yeah! ( beat ) Your birthday was yesterday?! No, it couldn't be!
STUMP: ( on phone ) Omigod, what can I say? I feel terrible no, it's not okay, jeez. When I get off the road we'll do something special a late birthday, eh? Maybe you can go to spring training or something with me, eh? Yeah. ( beat ) Listen, is your mother there? ( beat ) I know she doesn't want to speak to me, but I want to speak to her. ( waits for Okay, okay I feel terrible about the birthday. I'll call you real soon. And tell your mother I'm not drinking anymore. Okay. 'bye, 'bye.
STUMP: Fuck it.
COBB: 'Pathetic, paranoid, lost in the past!' What is this shit?! Those are my notes! You can't look at my notes!
STUMP: Those are my notes! You can't look at my notes!
COBB: You're notes my life! You're gonna betray me, you son of a You want the truth? I'm gonna tell the truth!
STUMP: You want the truth? I'm gonna tell the truth!
COBB: Whose truth?
STUMP: Mine, for crissakes, I'm the But I'm the legend and legends are not pathetic!
COBB: But I'm the legend and legends are not pathetic!
STUMP: ( slightly defensive ) These are just notes.
COBB: Don't you understand anything about 'greatness'?
STUMP: Maybe you should find another There's not enough time left.
COBB: There's not enough time left.
STUMP: I'm entitled to my opinions
COBB: Now that's pathetic. Who gives a good God damn about the opinions of Al Stump?! What people want to know about is Ty Cobb! And they don't want to know who he hates 'cause everybody hates somebody! They don't wanta know if he had two wives or ten! They don't wanta know if he hit women or if they hit You think they wanta know how to steal second base?
STUMP: You think they wanta know how to steal second base?
COBB: Yes! Precisely!
STUMP: Well I don't!
COBB: Oh, oh, oh. I get it. You're one of them college psychology type guys. You wanta find the missing piece to finish the puzzle known as the Madman Cobb you think you're the next Hemingway but you're just a moderate success in a moderate-sized pond.
STUMP: Fuck you, Cobb! I'm much more than a moderate success!
COBB: That's it, now you're showing some life. You want psychology? I'll give you some fucking psychology!
STUMP: ( cynically ) I'm all ears.
COBB: My father was a great man.
COBB: How's that? A pretty God damn good piece of psychology, eh? That what you're looking for? The childhood incident that explans me?!
COBB: Well I was a prick before it happened and a bigger prick after it happened so stick that up your Sigmund Freud ass!
STUMP: Your mother killed your father?
COBB: And you ain't printing it.
STUMP: I have to.
COBB: Not if I say so. I don't think you understand something I have final editorial approval of the No, I do. I always have it.
STUMP: No, I do. I always have it.
COBB: Did you read your contract?
STUMP: It's my standard contract. I just signed. I would never have agreed to this if you had final approval.
COBB: Call your agent.
STUMP: Hello? Charlie? Al. I'm in Reno. yeah. things are fine. Yeah, listen. I'm just checking. did we give away final editorial approval on this Cobb book? We did? Cobb has it? Jesus.
COBB: Well, you were pretty stupid to give up approval, weren't ya?
STUMP: Fuck you, Cobb?
COBB: Fuck me? Why me? Why you mad at me? Your agent made the deal, your lawyer, your publisher, you didn't even read the contract because you trusted them! Who the hell ever trusted a lawyer or an agent?! If I was Al Stump, the guy I'd be pissed off at would be Al Stump!
STUMP: Listen to me, you son of a bitch if you die before the book is finished, I'll write the story I But I ain't dying first.
COBB: But I ain't dying first.
STUMP: I'll write slow.
COBB: I'll die slow.
COBB: Now get dressed so we can go find some women.
COBB: Look't that hundred bucks says I get in her pants before dawn.
STUMP: My God it's Mona. Ra-mona. We met her at the hotel.
COBB: I don't remember.
RAMONA: Cigarettes, gentlemen? Cigars? We stockpiled some Havanas before Senor Castro did his little number.
STUMP: Coupla Monte Cristos, Ramona, number twos.
RAMONA: Have we met?
STUMP: At the hotel checking in.
RAMONA: Ohyeah, you were the asshole.
COBB: Excuse me, young lady, I must apologize for the behavior of my friend he has a crude side. I accept.
RAMONA: I accept.
COBB: Ramona. Spanish name. lovely. it means 'moonlit garden of the Actually it's German and means 'wise protectoress' but thanks for the thought.
RAMONA: Actually it's German and means 'wise protectoress' but thanks for the thought.
ONSTAGE: Louis Prima takes the mike His number has finished to much applause from the drunken crowd.
LOUIS PRIMA: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, you're a great crowd . I have been informed that we have a celebrity with us tonight who is a legend, a man who truly needs no introduction.
STUMP: 'Moonlit garden of the gods'?
LOUIS PRIMA: And this one's for the Georgia
LOUIS PRIMA: The great Ty Cobb! C'mon up They want you, Ty
STUMP: They want you, Ty
COBB: Of course they want me.
RAMONA: Who's that?
STUMP: The greatest baseball player of all time.
RAMONA: I don't know baseball from shmaseball but I know a nice man when I see one and I also know it's time for my coffee break. Hasta luego.
BACK ONSTAGE: As Cobb arrives.
LOUIS PRIMA: My great pleasure, sir I've always wanted to ask you something, Mr. Cobb, with all the great ballplayers playing right now how well do you think you'd do against today's players?
COBB: Well, I figure against today's pitchers I'd only hit about .275,
LOUIS PRIMA: That's amazing, Mr. Cobb, considering your lifetime average is nearly a hundred points higher. Why do you think you'd only hit .275 against today's pitchers?
COBB: Because I'm 72 fucking years old, that's why, God damn it. Give me that thing.
COBB: First of all I wanta thank you for that song, 'Sweet Georgia Brown. it's a great song about my home state and I appreciate That song has become the theme song for the Harlem It's too bad such a fine song had to be stole by a buncha niggers playing a faggot game in their
COBB: 'Course the Globetrotters are owned by a Jew named Saperstein so whadda you expect?
LOUIS PRIMA: Thank you very much. Another round of applause for the Georgia Peach, Ty Cobb!
COBB: I got the mike, Dago gimme a God damn minute. Nobody's got respect for their elders any
COBB: Now let me explain to you how to hit a baseball. It's a lost art. Ever since that half-nigger Ruth started hitting home runs, the skill, the art, and the science have been lost.
COBB: Now, say this is a bat.
BACKSTAGE: The CASINO MANAGERS and SECURITY FORCES are quickly gathering to figure out what to do.
CASINO MANAGER: Let's just haul him off
SECURITY OFFICER: That's Ty Cobb! He'll fucking kill me!
COBB: You see, the bat is like a wand, a magic wand. it should be caressed, held like a woman. like a woman who's really in need of a man.
OFFSTAGE: The Casino Manager winces and consults.
CASINO MANAGER: Oh God, here we go.
COBB: Hitting a baseball is really very easy. you can't force it. you can't overpower it. you go with the pitch. you let the bat do the work. it's all rhythm and
STUMP: Excuse me.
RAMONA: You again? You could learn some manners from your friend.
STUMP: I'll try harder. You're a beautiful woman.
RAMON: It's the wig.
RAMONA: The damn thing itches but it's good for tips. Give me a scratch, will ya?
RAMON: Turn you on? Hey, Harvey, another round. On him.
STUMP: Vodka and grapefruit juice. Your wig's crooked.
STUMP: Your wig's crooked.
RAMONA: Does it bother you?
STUMP: No, no. I was just
RAMONA: ( bored, You wanta go to bed with me,
STUMP: You want money?
RAMONA: I'm not a whore! I don't screw for money?! Jesus!
STUMP: I'm sorry. I didn't know. I mean I'm not good at this.
RAMONA: Just divorced, huh?
STUMP: Not yet.
RAMONA: It's written all over ya. Giant letters right across the forehead. D-I-V-O-R-C-E. Ha! Plain as day.
STUMP: It's obvious, huh?
RAMONA: ( beat ) So, if ya wanta pay me to screw, I won't do it.
STUMP: Then I won't.
RAMONA: Screw or pay?
STUMP: ( CONTINUED )
RAMONA: So ya don't wanta screw?
STUMP: No, I do.
RAMONA: All this ambiguity I see why she's divorcing ya.
STUMP: I don't know what I'm saying or doing anymore. I'm trying to speak my heart.
RAMONA: Oh God.
STUMP: I told my wife I wanted a divorce. She said 'okay' then I realized maybe I don't.
RAMONA: Then go back to her.
STUMP: Then quit crying. You want a divorce, you don't want a divorce, you're asking marital advice from a woman you're trying to get in the sack Jeez I'm not myself.
RAMONA: Then quit crying. You want a divorce, you don't want a divorce, you're asking marital advice from a woman you're trying to get in the sack Jeez I'm not myself.
STUMP: I'm not myself.
RAMONA: Who is?
STUMP: Another round, Harvey. This assignment has me befuddled. I'm supposed to tell the world that a monster is really a prince. I'm supposed to lie.
RAMONA: You being paid?
STUMP: Very well.
RAMONA: Then it's not a lie. It's a job. Quit agonizing take the money, do what you gotta do, and get it over with.
STUMP: I can't.
RAMONA: Then quit.
STUMP: For godsakes why not?
RAMONA: For godsakes why not?
STUMP: He knows greatness. I'm in the presence of greatness. I want to learn about greatness.
RAMONA: Greatness is overrated.
STUMP: Maybe you're right, maybe you're So what do you want? I want to be in someone's arms Oh that. Why do men have such a hard time saying what they want?
RAMONA: So what do you want? I want to be in someone's arms Oh that. Why do men have such a hard time saying what they want?
STUMP: I want to be in someone's arms Oh that. Why do men have such a hard time saying what they want?
RAMONA: Oh that. Why do men have such a hard time saying what they want?
STUMP: Wait, wait. don't drink too Ya think I won't be able to screw if I'm too drunk?
RAMONA: Ya think I won't be able to screw if I'm too drunk?
STUMP: Well. yeah.
RAMONA: Screwed, stewed, and tattooed!
STUMP: C'mere. I want to hold you.
RAMONA: You're so thoughtful the others are trying to get me drunk and you're trying to keep me sober. You'd be good husband Not so fast
STUMP: Not so fast
RAMONA: I didn't mean
STUMP: Come here.
RAMONA: I'm not a whore.
STUMP: Shh, shh. I know, I know.
COBB: You two-timing bastard! You God damn Judas Iscariot! You stealing my girl! I'll kill She's not 'your' girl! What're you doing?!
STUMP: She's not 'your' girl! What're you doing?!
RAMONA: What're you doing?!
COBB: You're coming with me!
RAMONA: I don't want to!
STUMP'S POV: A dizzying view of Cobb dragging the woman out of his room. And he passes out.
COBB: What's this?!
RAMONA: My hair.
COBB: Put it back on.
COBB: That's better.
RAMONA: Who are you again?
COBB: I am the Georgia Peach. I have 4,191 base hits in 11,429 at- bats, 920 stolen bases, 2,244 runs scored, and 92 batting And I want you to undress.
RAMONA: Cobb clicks the hammer of his gun with icy calm.
RAMONA: That don't scare me 'cause if you kill me I'll be dead and you ain't gonna screw a dead lady.
COBB: I might.
RAMONA: You're right. You might.
COBB: Take your clothes off.
COBB: You got big tits. I like big They aren't so big. They're average, actually but these bras are great. Push 'em right up there. I owe a lot to the bras and wigs. A girl needs what she Shut up. Take it off.
RAMONA: ( terrified ) They aren't so big. They're average, actually but these bras are great. Push 'em right up there. I owe a lot to the bras and wigs. A girl needs what she Shut up. Take it off.
COBB: Shut up. Take it off.
COBB: Shy, huh? Get on the bed. You're a beauty. Roll over.
COBB: You're a beauty. Roll over.
RAMONA: Mr. Cobb, I
COBB: Shut up.
COBB: What I coulda done with you in my I'm sure you
RAMONA: I'm sure you
COBB: Shut up!
RAMONA: What do you want from me?!
COBB: Roll over.
COBB: I want you to do exactly what I
RAMONA: CUT TO:
COBB: Exactly what I say.
COBB: A thousand dollars.
RAMONA: Do what you gotta do and get it over with, Mr. Cobb.
COBB: I want you to tell everyone you meet that you fucked me and I was the best fuck you ever had.
RAMONA: That's all?
COBB: That's a lot.
RAMONA: For a thousand bucks? Hell yes.
COBB: I'm looking at the most beautiful woman in the world, do you hear And I'm dead down here! Dead! Nothing! And it's been like that for over two years! Nothing! Now get outta here before I hit you!
COBB: And I'm dead down here! Dead! Nothing! And it's been like that for over two years! Nothing! Now get outta here before I hit you!
RAMONA: Georgia Peach my ass Georgia trash is what you are!
COBB: She was a great piece of ass, Stumpy, best I ever had.
STUMP: Good, good.
COBB: Have we missed the Testimonial No we haven't, Ty. now get some
STUMP: No we haven't, Ty. now get some
COBB: Nothing like a cigarette girl and thirty hours of sleep to invigorate a man, Stumpy! You look like shit.
STUMP: Been writing, Ty.
COBB: Well let's see how we're doing. Yes, God damn it, Stumpy, yes! Now you're getting it! None of this Sigmund Freud bullshit! Baseball, Stumpy, baseball! Yes!
COBB: Yes, God damn it, Stumpy, yes! Now you're getting it! None of this Sigmund Freud bullshit! Baseball, Stumpy, baseball! Yes!
COBB: You understand! People are no damn good but you're different! You're okay, Stumpy, you get it! And I can trust you.
COBB: Now let's go roll us some dice, Alimony, I feel a hot hand coming
COBB: Y'see how it works, Stumpy. they boo ya your whole career, then when you're about to kiss off, they put ya on a pedestal. That's what being a legend's all about.
COBB: Send the dice to the Peach, boys, and belly up to the bar.
COBB: Stumpy, what is that?!
COBB: My girl went for the nigger?
STUMP: I think they're just next to each other by accident.
COBB: Mona! You with that nigger!
WILLIE: He's crazy.
RAMONA: I know.
COBB: Willie! Is she with you?!
RAMONA: This is my man, Mr. Cobb, and he's all man.
COBB: My girl with my nigger!
STUMP: She's not your girl and he's not
SECURITY OFFICER: He's got a gun.
RAMONA: Mr. Cobb!
WILLIE: Get down!
COBB: What is the world coming to?!
STUMP: ( to security men ) We're leaving, we're leaving! There's no reason to press ( to everbody ) Do you know who I am?!
COBB: ( to everbody ) Do you know who I am?!
SECURITY MAN: You're a crazy old fool, that's who you are!
STUMP: Back off, God damn it! We're Where we going, Stumpy, I wanta find us some more women!
COBB: Where we going, Stumpy, I wanta find us some more women!
STUMP: Ty, Ty, Ty, calm down. It's time for the testimonial dinner!
COBB: Y'know something, Alimony, I believe you're the best friend I ever had.
STUMP: You're kidding.
COBB: Swear on a Bible, Stumpy I feel I can trust you now.
COBB: ( into recorder ) And then this fat ass named Babe Ruth came into the league and damn near destroyed the game of baseball. We all thought he was gonna eat and fuck his way outta the league but he hung around for a few years
STUMP: 'Hung around'? He was next to you the greatest player of all time. He hit 714 home runs?!
COBB: Anybody can hit home runs. Now excuse me, I got work to do.
STUMP: Sorry, Ty
COBB: I didn't care that they cheered and adored Ruth I cared that they respected his ballplaying Christ, they built Yankee Stadium for him with a 297-foot right field line. My sister Florence could hit the ball 297 feet!
COBB: Fabulous stuff, Stumpy, just brilliant. You're a genius.
STUMP: Thanks, Ty.
COBB: I love reading about me.
COBB: Goddamn it, who's out there?
STUMP: . and I became expert at keeping the peace wherever we
NIGHT: as Stump helps him shoot up.
COBB: ( into recorder ) . by the age of 25 I was a millionaire, by the age of 30 a multi-millionaire, by the age of
COBB: Y'know, Stumpy, with a friend like you, I just might go on
COBB: ( back into the Where were we ohyeah then, at the age of 42, I batted .323 which was an embarrassment to me but would be a career for anyone else.
COBB: You're gonna meet great athletes, great warriors, great men at this Hall of Fame dinner, Stumpy. None of this modern, pansy I've been looking forward to this for a long time
STUMP: I've been looking forward to this for a long time
COBB: You fucking liar. You've been hoping I'd die first.
STUMP: You got me wrong.
COBB: I got you right. But it's okay 'cause I need your help.
STUMP: Can I help you?
MAN: Cobb here?
STUMP: I'm Mickey Cochrane.
MAN: I'm Mickey Cochrane.
STUM: Jesus. Ty, it's Mickey Cochrane.
COBB: Where's your tux?
COBB: I sent you money for it.
COCHRANE: It didn't arrive.
COBB: You drank it, you mean. You can't go to the Hall of Fame like that. I won't allow it.
COCHRANE: Things have been rough, Ty.
COBB: There's two things a man should never do complain or explain. Now go buy a God damn tux!
COCHRANE: The stores are closed.
COBB: ( exploding ) How could you be so good behind the plate and so bad everywhere
COBB: Operator? What's the best men's shop in town. Who owns it? Jack who? Gimme his home number. Better yet, ring him up for me. Jack?! This is Ty Cobb. Go down to your shop and open it up and sell a tux to the great Mickey Cochrane. And sell him a cumberbund and a shirt and a bow tie and some God damn cologne. He smells like shit. What's the He'll be there in twenty minutes.
COBB: God damn it, Mickey, ya gotta give a better effort.
COCHRANE: Thanks, Ty.
COBB: He's lost, Stumpy, the poor man's been lost ever since he took a fastball in the ear.
STUMP: You take care of him?
COBB: For years but that ain't goin' in the book.
STUMP: Jesus, Ty, why not?
COBB: Because it would embarrass him.
COBB: I don't wanta take the cane You've got to have your cane.
STUMP: You've got to have your cane.
COBB: I don't have to have anything if you stay near me. in case I wobble or something. just a firm hand right here. That'll keep me upright. I'd appreciate it. Now how do I
STUMP: You look like the greatest ballplayer of all time. You going to be okay?
COBB: I'll be okay when I hear the
P.A. ANNOUNCER: The great left-handed pitcher from the New York Giants, who struck out five men in a row in the 19 All-Star game Carl Lanky Carl Hubbell, 50's, waves to the crowd and cameras as he enters to applause from the locals gathered.
P.A. ANNOUNCER: The great third baseman from the Chicago Cubs, Harold Joseph 'Pie' Pie Traynor, 60's, struggles to the entrance using a Paul and Lloyd Waner, the Waner brothers Big Poison and Little Poison from the Pittsburgh The Waner Brothers, 60's, jauntily wave and enter.
P.A. ANNOUNCER: Paul and Lloyd Waner, the Waner brothers Big Poison and Little Poison from the Pittsburgh The Waner Brothers, 60's, jauntily wave and enter.
P.A. ANNOUNCER: Fifty-eight home runs in a season Mr. Double-X the great Jimmy Foxx! The barrel-chested Jimmy Foxx, 60, gets out and waves.
P.A. ANNOUNCER: And ladies and gentlemen, the highest lifetime batting average of all time, first man elected to the Hall of Fame, retired with over 90 batting records, the one and only Georgia Peach, Ty Cobb! Cobb gets out, followed by Stump. Cobb walks into the building, past the cameras, utterly erect and upright, stretching his full six feet one inch. The applause is the most enthusiastic yet.
COBB: Your hand, Stumpy, your hand!
COBB: Thank you, my friend.
CHARLES: Hello, Mr. Cobb, good to see you
CRAWFORD: Sam Crawford, Ty, Long time no Good to see you, Sam. You doin' I'm alive, Ty, I'm alive.
COBB: Good to see you, Sam. You doin' I'm alive, Ty, I'm alive.
CRAWFORD: I'm alive, Ty, I'm alive.
COBB: The boys'll get together later and have a little party, eh?
CRAWFORD: Be some parties tonight, Peach.
COBB: Stumpy, meet Rogers Hornsby, next to me the greatest hitter of all How d'ya do. You're looking good, Ty.
HORNSBY: How d'ya do. You're looking good, Ty.
COBB: I look like shit and you know it. We'll have a real smoker later, Ohyeah. we'll tear it up Welcome to Cooperstown, ladies and gentlemen. We're here to acknowledge the greatest ballplayers of all time, those men still gracing our presence who were among the earliest inductees into the Hall of Fame. Waner, Hubbell, Foxx, Cochrane, Hornsby, Traynor these are the giants, the Old Masters of our
HORNSBY: Ohyeah. we'll tear it up Welcome to Cooperstown, ladies and gentlemen. We're here to acknowledge the greatest ballplayers of all time, those men still gracing our presence who were among the earliest inductees into the Hall of Fame. Waner, Hubbell, Foxx, Cochrane, Hornsby, Traynor these are the giants, the Old Masters of our
COBB: What the hell is this?!
STUMP: It's a great film
COBB: Me and Speaker and the fix?
STUMP: I think the medication's getting to you, Ty I'm watching you run the bases.
COBB: Al, what are you seeing?
STUMP: Your batting stroke.
COBB: Stumpy, what's going on?
STUMP: Ty, I think you're not well I'll take you back to the What're you seeing?
COBB: What're you seeing?
STUMP: You and Connie Mack.
COBB: Crawford and Foxx have something cooking in Room 212
STUMP: Over here, Ty.
COBB: I never partied with these boys but they had a reputation.
ROOM 212: They knock. JIMMY FOXX opens the door a crack.
FOXX: You got some booze?
COBB: You got some booze?
FOXX: ( CONTINUED )
COBB: I do. Who's in there?
FOXX: Me, Sam and Pie.
COBB: Got any women in there?
FOXX: Sure do.
COBB: Me and Stumpy want some action.
FOXX: Wanta meet some great broads?
COBB: We're ready.
CRAWFORD: Hello, Ty. You know my wife, And this is Mrs. Traynor.
TRAYNOR: And this is Mrs. Traynor.
FOXX: Pearl, meet Ty Cobb and
STUMP: Al Stump. Hello, ladies.
COBB: ( meekly ) Hello, ladies.
FOXX: Hornsby's got something on the third floor maybe more what you're looking for.
COBB: There it is!
STUMP: You sure you're up for this?
COBB: I've never been readier!
COBB: You ain't comin' in, Ty.
HORNSBY: You ain't comin' in, Ty.
COBB: It's me! An' Stumpy here!
HORNSBY: You're a bastard and you ain't coming to our party.
COBB: Who's in there?!
HORNSBY: Me and Mickey an' a coupla broads.
COBB: Let me talk to Mickey.
COCHRANE: Ya look good in that tux, Mick.
COBB: Ya look good in that tux, Mick.
COCHRANE: I can't let ya in, Ty. It's Rogers' party. I'm an invited guest.
COBB: God damn it, let me in!
COBB: Presidents of the United States of America used to invite me to the White House to drink their Scotch and smoke their cigars and fuck their women.
STUMP: Let's go to the motel, Ty.
COBB: Let me in, God damn it! I invented this game! Let me in!
STUMP: Let's go home, Ty, this isn't a good place to be.
COBB: ( screaming ) I fought for players' rights and salary increases and unions while all you crawled around on your knees begging massa' for bread crumbs just thankful for a job!
COBB: Take me back to the Hall!
STUMP: I appreciate your coming.
CHARLES: For Mr. Cobb, no problem.
COBB: What did you see on that film I saw Ty Cobb playing baseball.
STUMP: I saw Ty Cobb playing baseball.
COBB: That's all?
STUMP: That's all.
COBB: I was raised in the Baptist Church but I know that Heaven is just the ol' oskefagus the change-up. You swing from your ass 'cause you think life is a fastball down the middle and after your bat has crossed the plate and you're all off balance and looking stupid, the ball just kinda flutters across home, slow and juicy and hittable, and as it crosses the plate, the ball looks at you and smiles a nasty smile and laughs its way into the catcher's mitt. We don't just lose we're made fools of.
STUMP: You were the best.
COBB: Save the romance for the book. . and take me home to Georgia.
COBB: Greatest biography ever written
COBB: My sister lives down this way. Turn right here.
COBB: About fifteen years ago. But she understands me. There! No. damn..
COBB: There! I think.
LIMO: stops nearby.
STUMP: I'll see if it's her. Wait here.
STUMP: Good day, ma'am. I'm looking for Florence Cobb .
FLORENCE: That's me.
STUMP: I have your brother in the car.
FLORENCE: Yes. And he'd like to see you.
STUMP: Yes. And he'd like to see you.
FLORENCE: I don't wish to see him.
STUMP: It's been a long time, he said. He's not well.
FLORENCE: I have nothing to say to him, and wish to hear nothing he has to say to me.
STUMP: I know there's been problems, but the family is very important to Young man, the family he talks about never existed.
FLORENCE: Young man, the family he talks about never existed.
STUMP: He loved his father.
FLORENCE: If his father, if my father, was such a great man, why did Tyrus turn out to be so evil?
STUMP: He's dying. He just wants to see
FLORENCE: And she politely closes the door in Stump's face. Stump turns, sees that the limo is at such a distance that Cobb couldn't possibly have seen, or heard, her. He returns to the limo.
COBB: It wasn't your sister. The woman in the house said your sister moved a long time ago. she doesn't know You cocksucking liar. My sister doesn't want to see me and you're
STUMP: It wasn't your sister. The woman in the house said your sister moved a long time ago. she doesn't know You cocksucking liar. My sister doesn't want to see me and you're
COBB: You cocksucking liar. My sister doesn't want to see me and you're
STUMP: Liar?! A cocksucking liar?! Of course I'm a liar! That's what I'm paid to do, isn't it?! Lie about Ty Cobb?!
COBB: If you didn't like the job, why didn't you quit?
STUMP: Who would take care of you?
COBB: Don't give me the sob-sister I listen to your bullshit, I interpret and shape and find words for your bullshit and you give me nothing but grief!
STUMP: I listen to your bullshit, I interpret and shape and find words for your bullshit and you give me nothing but grief!
COBB: You love being this close to Stop the car!
STUMP: Stop the car!
STUMP: I wish you'd die!
COBB: I will, Stumpy, I will.
STUMP: And go to hell!
COBB: Oh, I'll do that, too. And look how convenient you've made it.
STUMP: That was your sister alright, and she didn't want anything to do with you either!
COBB: I forgive her.
STUMP: You forgive her?! That's rich!
COBB: ( following along ) Forgiveness is crucial to human maturity and religious growth.
STUMP: Religious growth?!
COBB: We all need to forgive more, Al. you oughta try it. You're too angry. You're all pent up.
STUMP: I'm angry?
COBB: Are you angry because I discovered you were a whore? Is that it, I'm angry?!
STUMP: I'm angry?!
COBB: Is it the divorce? You gotta let go of it.
STUMP: I love her! I don't want a Sure ya do. You're just so used to accommodating people that you don't know what you want anymore. I accommodate nobody.
COBB: Sure ya do. You're just so used to accommodating people that you don't know what you want anymore. I accommodate nobody.
STUMP: But you have no friends!
COBB: Do you? Who are they?! Those drunken hacks you hang out with who all think they're gonna write the great American novel but all they're gonna ever do is bitch and moan and write lousy leads about high school football games? How about the brunette in the courtyard? Is she your friend? I heard she fucks everybody she must be everybody's friend!
COBB: I'm glad we're here I was gonna bring you here anyway sooner or
STUMP: Which Cobb of Georgia is that?
COBB: ( with pride ) That is me.
COBB: When I die, my mother and father will be moved in here and, in time, my dear sister, Florence will join us as well. The family will be together again.
STUMP: Under one roof? That's romantic! You want that in the book? Ty Cobb brings the family together at last to enter the gates of Heaven You mock my family you mock me. My father was a great man!
COBB: You mock my family you mock me. My father was a great man!
COBB: My father was a great man!
STUMP: Then why are you such a bastard?
COBB: Being a bastard is a small price to pay for greatness. I, too, am a great man.
STUMP: Let me go!
COBB: My mother didn't kill my father.
STUMP: What're you talking about?
COBB: My father told my mother he was leaving town for the weekend but he came back to the edge of the woods where he tied up his horse.
KABLAM!: CUT TO:
COBB: Well?! Is that what you want?! 'Cause that's all I know and the only other people who know about it are dead! But it ain't going in the book, either, 'cause you're the only friend I got left, and you're the only man I can trust.
STUMP: I don't want to be your friend! I don't want to feel sorry for you! So your mother's lover blew your father's head off! I don't care. You were a prick before it happened, you were a prick after it happened, you've been a prick ever since, and you're a prick now! Public relations are overrated.
COBB: Public relations are overrated.
STUMP: What the hell're you talking
COBB: You need a drink.
STUMP: Fuck the drink! You're too angry, Al, you just gotta learn to let it out.
COBB: You're too angry, Al, you just gotta learn to let it out.
STUMP: I'm gonna tell the truth about you, Cobb! I'm gonna tell the world you hate women, Jews, and niggers!
COBB: ( calmly ) You shouldn't use the word 'nigger', Stumpy, it's racist and demeaning. And I don't hate women I'm just not very good with 'em, which puts me in the same boat with you and every other man I know.
STUMP: You treat people like dirt!
COBB: The children of America need heroes, Al, you know that. Get your hands off me!
STUMP: Get your hands off me!
COBB: C'mon, Al. You're making a fool of yourself out here. It's not dignified. Come in out of the rain.
COBB: You're an educated man. tell me what you think.
COBB: Either my father was. inadequate . for my mother. he was not the man I thought he was. not a great man. not even a good man. . or my mother was. trash. a common whore. It's that simple, isn't it?
COBB: As a boy I stood in court next to her because suddenly I was the man of the house but as I stood there steadfastly by her side and heard the jury say 'not guilty' I knew she'd been with another man the night of the killing.
COBB: A man must defend his mother at all times, isn't that right, Al? Or am I a fool?
STUMP: A man must defend his mother at all times.
COBB: That's what I thought.
COBB: In here.
STUMP: I'm afraid it's divorce, Stumpy. I know this routine.
COBB: I'm afraid it's divorce, Stumpy. I know this routine.
STUMP: But my wife and I are still Yeah, and what she's saying is 'fuck you.'
COBB: Yeah, and what she's saying is 'fuck you.'
STUMP: Fuck me? Well fuck her. No, fuck him.
STUMP: You ain't serving me no papers.
STUMP: I love my wife.
COBB: We all loved our wives, Al, that's got nothing to do with it.
COBB: There's a million broads out there, Stumpy put down the gun.
STUMP: I am not going to accommodate this man, Tyrus.
COBB: You're all mixed up. Give me the You're absolutely right, Tyrus, I've been accommodating people my whole life and it stops right You've killed a man. I'll kill a
STUMP: You're absolutely right, Tyrus, I've been accommodating people my whole life and it stops right You've killed a man. I'll kill a
STUMP: Don't give me that sob-sister
COBB: Al. no. Al. Al.
STUMP: Life is too short to be diplomatic. A man's friends don't care what he says or does. You're my friend, Ty, right? You're my
COBB: Stump pulls the TRIGGER CLICK. Empty. As the Man looks up, realizing he's alive, Stump strikes him across the face with the gun, drawing blood. The Man scrambles to his feet and races from the room, grabbing his briefcase, and running to the door.
STUMP: I almost killed a man.
COBB: A little drunken excess.
STUMP: No. I put a gun to a man's head and pulled the trigger. I wanted to kill him.
COBB: It's forgotten already. I saw nothing. Nothing happened.
STUMP: Yes it did.
COBB: Al, listen to me.
STUMP: Nobody's gonna write my And when the brunette in the courtyard brushed against you, I know what happened, Al. A warm summer breeze, the smell of jasmine, her black hair against a white blouse you came to life again, you got hard and when you saw her naked it was more than you could bear. it's okay, Al, it's okay. The brunette ain't gonna be in the book either.
COBB: And when the brunette in the courtyard brushed against you, I know what happened, Al. A warm summer breeze, the smell of jasmine, her black hair against a white blouse you came to life again, you got hard and when you saw her naked it was more than you could bear. it's okay, Al, it's okay. The brunette ain't gonna be in the book either.
COBB: And the drinking? Well, they used to say ol' Ty had a drinking problem but you can booze me right under the table right now. no problem. and nobody's God damn business, either.
STUMP: I get it. I get it.
COBB: Then get some sleep. You look
COBB: ( reading to . 'vicious, pathological, bubbling with violence. Cobb's demons were not merely exorcized on the baseball field. they spilled over into all parts of his miserable life.'
COBB: You don't have a point of view, Stumpy, you ain't worth
COBB: Dear God.
COBB: No. no. no. this can't be. Absolutely not. This is not right.
COBB: ( terrified ) Stumpy?! No.
COBB: Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed by Thy name. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on Earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive Aw, fuck it. little late for that sob sister stuff.
COBB: . so this is what it feels
COBB: ( on phone ) Can you get me the Emory ( couple beats ) Hello, Ma'am? This is Ty Cobb. Can you please prepare your finest room for me? Tomorrow morning would be fine.
STUMP: ( off no answer ) ( off no answer )
STUMP: Stump leaps out of bed and looks around.
STUMP'S POV: Three holes of broken plaster and mirror.
STUMP'S POV: The "real" manuscript scattered around the floor near the chair. Nearby, the bathroom door is open. Stump hurries into the bathroom and stops cold. Blood is on the sink and on the towels. A note is on the mirror. He pulls the note down and reads it.
STUMP: I'm here to see.
STUMP: . Mr. Cobb.
RECEPTIONIST: Be careful. He's got a gun and we haven't been able to get it away from him.
STUMP: I know, I know.
NURSE #1: He doesn't want visitors.
COBB: Hey, Stumpy, where you been? You can't believe the shit they call food in this joint. You get some sleep? Good. I had quite a read last night. Excuse me, sir, but I need to draw some more blood.
NURSE #1: Excuse me, sir, but I need to draw some more blood.
COBB: Put a bucket under my chin and I'll cough up a couple pints for I have to do it this way.
NURSE #1: I have to do it this way.
COBB: Well don't poke around too long.
COBB: She's a nice piece of ass, eh, You come back later and climb on the big fella?
NURSE #1: It's against regulations, sir.
STUMP: So you read the book.
COBB: Yeah, God damn it, I thought I could trust you I used to be able to figure out people better.
STUMP: That book is the truth.
COBB: You're a God damn romantic! The truth is a whore! Just like you and just like my mother!
NURSE #2: A Mr. Barton is here to see you. He says he's the chairman of the board of Coca Cola.
COBB: Tell the son of a bitch to go downstairs and have a Pepsi I got no time for business.
YOUNG DOCTOR: I need to take your blood pressure, sir.
COBB: It's high. What else you need to I have to do it.
YOUNG DOCTOR: I have to do it.
OLDER DOCTOR: Mr. Cobb. We cannot allow you to have a gun in here.
COBB: Come and get it. Y'know, Stumpy, my oldest son was a doctor a hacksaw artist, that's all they are He died of a brain tumor when he was forty hadn't spoke to me in fifteen years 'cause I was such a rotten father put that in your God damn book!
COBB: Y'know, Stumpy, my oldest son was a doctor a hacksaw artist, that's all they are He died of a brain tumor when he was forty hadn't spoke to me in fifteen years 'cause I was such a rotten father put that in your God damn book!
COBB: ( to the Younger Bad, ain't it?
STUMP: I don't know which version of your life I'm going to publish. I really don't.
COBB: There ya go again! Accommodating me and you don't have to! I died faster than you could write!
COBB: Get the hell outta here! Everybody but Stumpy! Out!
COBB: You fooled me, Stumpy, nobody ever fooled me but you pulled it off! I thought we were pals!
STUMP: I didn't know what I was getting into with this job.
COBB: Quit explaining yourself! Stand by your convictions! You beat the great Ty Cobb! I respect that! But if you print it print it all! My second son weighed 300 pounds and he died of a heart attack in the arms of a hooker in Paso Robles. My other son I lost all track of and my two daughters won't speak to me and my two ex- wives won't and my siter you know won't! Print it all! And Ty Cobb can't get it up anymore! Print that too!
STUMP: It's all. confusing.
COBB: It's not! It's simple! You won! Tell the world that the greatest ballplayer who ever lived was also the biggest bastard! Who cares now?! I give you permission and my blessing! From here on it's your story!
STUMP: Here's a little something might
COBB: Where's my money?
STUMP: Right here, Peach. next to your
COBB: Stumpy, there's nothing wrong with wanting glory. Now get the hell outta here.
OLDER DOCTOR: What about the gun? Did you get Naw, I didn't get the gun.
STUMP: Naw, I didn't get the gun.
BILL: . so a woman goes into a bar with a duck under her arm, sits down next to a drunk who looks up and says, 'Where'd you find that pig?' An' the woman says 'That's no pig, that's a duck.'
BILL: Stump enters comfortably, happy to see his cronies at last. Frank and the others come over from the bar, quickly gathering around Stump.
FRANK: Stranger! Another round on me!
CRONIES: Long time no see, etc.
STUMP: Good to see you guys. how's it goin'? Alan, how's that novel coming? Must be about done by now?
MUD: Uh, actually, I haven't started it yet. been kinda busy.
BILL: We all been busy.
STUMP: Yeah, I know how it is.
FRANK: We read that Cobb died.
STUMP: Yeah. finally gave up the ghost.
FRANK: So? What was he like?
MUD: Were the stories true or were they exaggerated?
REYNALDO: Tell us the truth, man, was he a monster?
BILL: Or was he just one of the guys?
STUMP: The truth?
CRONIES: Ohyeah, the absolute truth, no bullshit, give it to us straight, etc.
STUMP: The truth?
STUMP: A prince and a great man has Yes, awright, we knew it. Helluva guy, eh?
CRONIES: Yes, awright, we knew it. Helluva guy, eh?
BILL: Helluva guy, eh?
STUMP: A helluva guy, a great man, a misunderstood artist, a fierce competitor but a sweet man at heart. a gentle soul.
MAUSOLEUM: Nearby, two holes in the earth have been opened up and the caskets of Cobb's mother and father are being moved into the mausoleum.
THE END: Writers : Ron Shelton
