SWIMMER: .This is your path. There is no other. That's a curse you can use on the Yankee before battle.
INMAN: And that works?
SWIMMER: You have to say it in Cherokee.
INMAN: You said it to me in Cherokee.
SWIMMER: So keep your head still.
INMAN: ( to Swimmer ) Anyway, there won't be any war. And if there is, they say it won't last a week.
ROURKE: Don't worry, son. Those Yankee boys keep store hours. They ain't open
BUTCHER: That's fresh breakfast. Shoot him!
ROURKE: I'm not firing, start the damn war
ROURKE: That's my rabbit!
BUTCHER: That was something! That's hell and we've been there! Kicked old Nick's
BUTCHER: You got a charge?
STOBROD: That's gold in his mouth he got no need for. We take his boots.
OAKLEY: I got a few. You saw?
INMAN: I saw.
OAKLEY: I know you don't recognise me. I'm Mo Oakley's boy. It's okay. I was thirteen when you all left. Am I going to die?
OAKLEY: I'd like to hear some music while I
STOBROD: What about Bonaparte's Retreat? That's one I play.
OAKLEY: Play me something sweet. Like a girl's waiting for me.
OAKLEY: Play me something like there's nothing to fear from a merciful Lord.
INMAN: ( to Stobrod ) You heard him.
STOBROD: ( nervous ) I only know a couple of tunes.
OAKLEY: Like when you're thirsty up at Bishop's Creek and the water is so
OAKLEY: I'm reaching Cold Mountain before
OFFICER: Don't get up, soldier. You are mentioned tonight in my report. You are a credit to the Highlands, to North Carolina and to the Cause.
INMAN: ( tight ) Do you have news, sir, on my application for transfer?
OFFICER: I know. A bloody day. It's what our General said: Good thing war is so terrible else a man might end up liking it too much.
INMAN: Sir. It was my understanding the medical corps was desperate for Right now, soldier, it's me who is in need of volunteers. There's a dozen Yankees in that stand of trees between us. Stuck there from the retreat. Come daylight they can shoot us down for sport.
OFFICER: Right now, soldier, it's me who is in need of volunteers. There's a dozen Yankees in that stand of trees between us. Stuck there from the retreat. Come daylight they can shoot us down for sport.
SALLY: ( to Ada, as Monroe moves off ) Ada, how are you settling in? Are you liking the farm?
ADA: Very much. It's beautiful country.
SALLY: So listen if you would say hello to one of these fools, I'll get a field cleared this weekend.
ADA: Anyone? Like a forfeit?
SALLY: ( pointing at Inman who immediately looks away ) No. Him in particular, up in the rafters. Been pressing me all morning.
ROURKE: ( hammering ) I call this nail: Northern Aggression. ( hammering ) I call this nail: a free nigger.
BUTCHER: Show some respect these nails are making a church.
ROURKE: ( hammering ) I call this nail: respect the church.
ADA: Inman swings down. He feels the other men staring, burning a hole in his head.
ADA: I'm Ada Monroe.
INMAN: I'm Inman.
ADA: W. P. Inman.
INMAN: W. P. Inman.
ADA: W. P. Inman.
INMAN: Repeating a thing doesn't improve People call me Inman.
ADA: If you were to take a glass of lemonade your friends might stop staring. Inman.
INMAN: They're not my friends.
INMAN: Thank you.
ADA: And what do you do?
INMAN: I work wood. Got a piece of land. Mostly work wood.
ADA: Clear fields?
INMAN: ( uncomfortable ) I can clear a field.
ADA: So, was there something in particular you wished to say to me?
INMAN: ( thinks about it ) Not that comes to me. ( hands back the glass ) I'll say thank you for the lemonade.
ROURKE: Esco loves the Yankees.
ESCO: I prefer a Yankee to a halfwit.
ESCO: What is it you think you'd be fighting The South.
ROURKE: The South.
ESCO: And what's that when it's at home?
ACTON: Pop, you causing trouble?
ESCO: That means yes.
ELLIS: That means yes.
ESCO: You cut the wood, you carry the water for good old King Cotton. Now you want to fight for him. Somebody has to explain it to me.
ACTON: ( to Rourke and the others ) Don't even try.
BUTCHER: How's the lemonade? Sweet?
SALLY: That's a fine looking thing.
ADA: I've been missing it.
SALLY: Thank you, by the way. Inman's down in the bottom field, clearing his debt.
ADA: Oh dear. And then he had nothing to He was happy.
SALLY: He was happy.
ADA: Are men so different in Charleston?
SALLY: Are men so different in Charleston?
ADA: Men? I don't know. I don't even know what a woman should be like. In Charleston I was called a thistle, twice, by two different men. Both of them they were hunting for a simile, what was I like and thistle came right to them.
SALLY: If you're saying you might like him, why not go down and say hello.
MONROE: Esco, our friends there they helped build the Chapel?
ESCO: That's Teague and his boys. I'd recommend you kick them out except a man don't kick a snake. One time the Teague family owned the whole of Cold Mountain. My farm, your farm, all belonged to his grand-daddy. Teague wanted this place bad. You got it. He's here sniffing out an There's no advantage here, but to celebrate a job well done. Cheers and thank you.
MONROE: There's no advantage here, but to celebrate a job well done. Cheers and thank you.
ADA: Were you planning to come inside?
INMAN: I'm wetter than a fish.
ADA: There's a good fire going.
INMAN: I'm all right.
ADA: Somebody said you were enlisting. Are you?
INMAN: If there's a war we'll all fight.
ADA: ( unimpressed ) If there's a mountain we'll all climb, if there's an ocean we'll all drown.
INMAN: Call a thing a war makes it a challenge to some men.
ADA: Did you get a picture made?
INMAN: Say again.
ADA: A tintype, with your gun and your courage on display.
INMAN: You're laughing at me.
ADA: I don't know you.
INMAN: You're always carrying a tray.
ADA: I'm taking a drink over to the negroes in the barn.
INMAN: ( takes the tray ) I'll do that. I can't get much wetter.
MONROE: Mr. Inman.
INMAN: What can I do for you?
MONROE: What can I do for you?
INMAN: I have some sheet music. Belonged to my father. No use to me.
MONROE: You must come in.
INMAN: I should probably get along.
ADA: Mr. Inman is more comfortable outdoors. Perhaps we might take a A splendid idea.
MONROE: A splendid idea.
MONROE: ( expansive ) I want to get sheep into this field. A big field doesn't look right without sheep. You're a lucky fellow, Mr. Inman, you've had this view all your I think so.
INMAN: I think so.
MONROE: It's a special view. I dragged my poor daughter to Cold Mountain from Charleston because of my Doctors they say my heart is weak so the air's meant to do me good. But it's the view I think heals.
MONROE: I have to get on my visits. Can I offer you a ride back into town?
ADA: Well, you have your war.
TEAGUE: Those who follow Lincoln, or preach abolition, best keep one eye open when they're sleeping, Old Bogey Man might get you!
INMAN: Are you the law all of a sudden?
TEAGUE: That's right, son. Home Guard for Haywood County. I'm the law from today. You all go fight now. We'll watch your sweethearts.
INMAN: You might be safer back in Charleston.
ADA: But then who'll be waiting for you?
INMAN: I'm going to walk back inside the
MONROE: Did you want a quiet word?
INMAN: Just some quiet.
MONROE: Of course Ada.
MONROE: ( of his appointment ) I'll daresay Dr. O'Brien'll want to do a test or two.
ADA: And then there'll be a coffee or two, a brandy or two.
ADA: I found you this book. William Bartram. They tell me it's good. I think he writes about these parts, the author, so.
ADA: And this. I'm not smiling in it. I don't know how to do that, hold a smile, so now I'm solemn.
INMAN: HE KISSES HER, pressing into her, his arm circling her waist. Below them the sound of a MARCHING BAND. It's the RECRUITMENT PARADE and brings Rourke and Butcher racing down the stairs. Inman pulls away from Ada as the boys hurtle for the front
ADA: HE KISSES HER, pressing into her, his arm circling her waist. Below them the sound of a MARCHING BAND. It's the RECRUITMENT PARADE and brings Rourke and Butcher racing down the stairs. Inman pulls away from Ada as the boys hurtle for the front
ROURKE: Let's go!
HILL: EXT. BEHIND CONFEDERATE LINES, VIRGINIA. DAY A TRAIN with the seriously injured snakes past the back of the Confederate lines its suburbs of supplies, arriving and departing troops and into peaceful country. FIDDLE
INMAN: I'm not dying.
STOBROD: ( to Pangle ) What'd he say?
PANGLE: Says he ain't about to die.
STOBROD: ( to Inman ) Truth to tell they say you are, Soldier. We'll meet again, in the better world. My condolences to you all. ( he considers the slave ) Keep an eye on the negro. They want what the white man got all of you watch out your brave boys give their lives to war and meantime your slaves carry murder, rape and arson to your The only slaves within twenty miles labor on my farm. They're good Christians and I'll vouchsafe for
TEAGUE: My condolences to you all. Keep an eye on the negro. They want what the white man got all of you watch out your brave boys give their lives to war and meantime your slaves carry murder, rape and arson to your The only slaves within twenty miles labor on my farm. They're good Christians and I'll vouchsafe for
MONROE: The only slaves within twenty miles labor on my farm. They're good Christians and I'll vouchsafe for
ADA: You're looking at this moment, I don't know why you're looking exactly like your mother.
MONROE: You're looking at this moment, I don't know why you're looking exactly like your mother.
ADA: Every time you see the doctor you get melancholy.
MONROE: He listens to my heart and I get He gives you alcohol and you get
ADA: He gives you alcohol and you get
MONROE: We commiserate about the folly of this terrible war. Do you worry when there's no word from him? From Mr. Inman?
ADA: Yes. But then I've tried counting the number of words which passed between Mr. Inman and me. Is that a bonfire? So close to the
ADA: What's going on?
MONROE: ( shouting at the disappearing slaves ) Hey! Stop there! Hey!
MONROE: Dear God.
ADA: No, Daddy, it's not real.
MONROE: ( appalled ) What is wrong with us all?
ADA: I'll get help. Keep away from the flames.
DOCTOR: Most of these men will be dead by the morning or, if they're stubborn, by nightfall. I have other men outside in the quadrangle waiting for the
DOCTOR: So, any kind word will be a blessing.
DOCTOR: It's the heat. I'm sorry. They rot.
DOCTOR: Don't pray. If they're not God fearing you can stir up a hornet's nest.
MRS. MORGAN: I'm sorry, you want water?
INMAN: Pigeon River. Little East Fork.
MRS. MORGAN: I'm sorry. I don't know what he's They ramble. Names of loved ones.
DOCTOR: They ramble. Names of loved ones.
MRS. MORGAN: ( listening to Inman ) Pigeon River. Is that a place? Cold
DOCTOR: This man is dead.
MONROE: Thank you. For your Providence, Oh lord, we thank you.
ADA: Amen. That was the last of the ham.
MONROE: It was delicious.
ADA: I have to learn how to cook.
MONROE: I was going to say something in Chapel. Perhaps some of the womenfolk will volunteer.
ADA: I can't have people coming here and cooking for me!
MONROE: It's my fault. I should have raised you less like a companion and more like a young woman. I'm sorry.
ADA: I'm not sorry, but I don't know how we'll get through another winter.
MONROE: Will you play me something? Something peaceful while I look over my sermon.
ADA: ( still playing ) Daddy, bring the tablecloth in with
ADA: Daddy, come inside before you drown!
MRS. MORGAN: It's come to you by way of Virginia.
MRS. MORGAN: It's not too recent written this past winter. I'm afraid I can't read who it's from. Dear Mr. Inman,
MRS. MORGAN: at the end of my wits, so now I say to you, plain as I can, come back to me. Come back to me is my Then something I can't read, something, come back to me.
OFFICIAL: Any man takes in a deserter is likewise guilty of treason.
OFFICIAL: The Home Guard is powered to enter any place it sees fit, without notice or constraint. Names of all deserters will be posted in every town, published in every newspaper.
ADA: Is there a letter for me?
MRS. CASTLEREAGH: Nothing we're getting no post through at all although if you slip out back the material you ordered has arrived.
MRS. CASTLEREAGH: If folks knew I was taking deliveries from the North.
ADA: I know. Thank you so much.
MRS. CASTLEREAGH: The sooner we lose this war the better. Already one boy gone, another with his leg took off at the knee. That's enough.
ADA: What do you hear?
MRS. CASTLEREAGH: All I know is they say not one boy in ten from these mountains is coming home again and most of them are
TEAGUE: It's taken me too long, but I've come to pay my respects.
ADA: Thank you.
TEAGUE: ( hands over the rabbits ) I reckoned you might need fattening
TEAGUE: This house must bring bad luck. Killed my granddaddy to lose it, then my daddy died on account of not having it, then your daddy died on account of getting it. We should burn it Didn't somebody try?
ADA: Didn't somebody try?
TEAGUE: Lot to manage without help. Need a hand with that pump?
ADA: I'm happy to volunteer.
TEAGUE: I'm happy to volunteer.
ADA: But not to volunteer for the war?
TEAGUE: The war? I wanted to go. But you know: too old, too literate. Plus I got no spleen. Lost it from a horse's You've got no spleen.
ADA: You've got no spleen.
TEAGUE: That's the thing about an organ. You don't know you need it till you lost I want to clear this path. I can just as soon do it and talk as stand around and talk. Then you can say men beat a path to your door.
ADA: I'd really prefer it if you didn't do that.
TEAGUE: Would you rather I did my job? See if there's any material I should confiscate. For the war effort.
ADA: I was raised in the good manners of the South where a gentleman doesn't enter a house with a woman alone.
TEAGUE: ( now he's at the pump ) Good manners didn't quite make it to these mountains. If it don't yield meat, or you can't sit on it, or suck on it. ( he gets the pump going, water pours out ) And you're sleeping all right? These cold dark nights?
ADA: I'm sleeping fine.
TEAGUE: It's going to be a long hard winter.
AS: EXT. HOSPITAL, CHARLESTON. DUSK The men return to the Hospital. A BLIND MAN IS SELLING PEANUTS which he roasts over a small fire. HE'S SINGING AS
SALLY: Ada! Ada, It's Sally.
ESCO: Will you look at the state of this Poor soul. She's got nobody and nothing and three hundred acres of
SALLY: Poor soul. She's got nobody and nothing and three hundred acres of
BLIND MAN: Getting better all the time.
INMAN: Seems that way.
BLIND MAN: I wouldn't hurry. War's almost done.
INMAN: Where'd you take your wound?
BLIND MAN: Before I was born. Never saw a thing in this world, not a tree a gun or a woman. Though I put my hand on all three. Couple of things I felt back there I'd sure liked to have had a long look at.
INMAN: What would you give for that? To have your eyeballs back for ten Ten minutes! Wouldn't give an Indian head cent. I fear it might turn me That's sure what seeing's done to That ain't the way I meant it. You said ten minutes. It's having a thing and then the loss I'm talking about.
BLIND MAN: Ten minutes! Wouldn't give an Indian head cent. I fear it might turn me That's sure what seeing's done to That ain't the way I meant it. You said ten minutes. It's having a thing and then the loss I'm talking about.
INMAN: That's sure what seeing's done to That ain't the way I meant it. You said ten minutes. It's having a thing and then the loss I'm talking about.
BLIND MAN: That ain't the way I meant it. You said ten minutes. It's having a thing and then the loss I'm talking about.
INMAN: Then we don't agree. There's not much I wouldn't give for ten minutes of someplace.
BLIND MAN: Someplace or someone.
INMAN: Same difference.
BLIND MAN: You watch yourself. They're shooting men who take themselves a walk.
BARBER: Inman settles in the seat. The Barber contemplates his scraggy beard, the livid, scabbed wound on his neck.
BARBER: ( nervous ) I'll cut your hair, but I ain't about to shave you. That thing opens up, your head's liable to falloff.
SALLY: You're skinny as a whippet, girl you're coming indoors with me.
ADA: I can't. I'm not I need to clean some clothes.
SALLY: Great God, you ever looked at my husband! I can't get him to wear decent Church clothes Christmas morning. Hang on to me, the wind'll blow you over.
SALLY: Don't go back to that dark house. There's a bed here, least till our boys get home.
ESCO: That your daddy's coat?
ADA: I was saying to Sally, I wasn't expecting to be visiting, so.
ESCO: Don't suit you.
ESCO: I can't get up to your place this She's mad at me
ADA: I don't expect -
ESCO: more than I can do to keep this place half-managed. I'm ready-to stop, I tell you. I just want to sit on my porch with Sal, watch my boys in the field, holler good job! every hour or so.
SALLY: What about your people in Charleston?
ADA: There are no people. And no money. My father had some bonds and investments. They're worthless now, of course, the war has. they're not worth anything. I love it here. In spite of And waiting on a feller.
ESCO: And waiting on a feller.
ESCO: Look down our well. She should! Look down our well with a mirror, you'll see the future. S'what they say. You do it! Don't make that face.
SALLY: I know it ain't rightly Christian, but it's what folks do, like when they dangle a needle over the belly to see if you're carrying a boy or a What kind of mirror?
ADA: What kind of mirror?
ESCO: See anything?
ADA: I don't know.
SALLY: I tried many a time, never saw a
SALLY: You all right?
RUBY: If that letter ain't urgent, the cow is is what I'm saying.
ADA: I don't know you.
RUBY: Old Lady Swanger says you need some help. Here I am.
ADA: I need help, I need, I do need help, but I need a laborer there's plowing and rough work and I think there's been a misunderstanding.
RUBY: What's the rake for?
ADA: The rake?
RUBY: Ain't for gardening, that's for sure. Number one you got a horse I can plow all day. I'm a worker. Number two there's no man better than me cause there's no man around who ain't old or full of mischief. I know your My plight?
ADA: My plight?
RUBY: Am I hard to hear cause you keep repeating everything. I'm not looking for money, never cared for it and now it ain't worth nothing. I expect to board and eat at the same table. I'm not a servant. Do you get my You're not a servant.
ADA: You're not a servant.
RUBY: People'll have to empty their own night jars, that's my point.
ADA: And I'm not planning to work while you watch neither.
RUBY: And I'm not planning to work while you watch neither.
ADA: Is that a yes or a no?
RUBY: Is that a yes or a no?
ADA: ( looks at Ruby ) There's half the day yet. Let's make a start. My name's Ruby. I know your The rake: there's a rooster devil, I'm sure of it. He's Lucifer himself. I go near him he's at me with his I despise a flogging rooster. Where is he?
RUBY: There's half the day yet. Let's make a start. My name's Ruby. I know your The rake: there's a rooster devil, I'm sure of it. He's Lucifer himself. I go near him he's at me with his I despise a flogging rooster. Where is he?
ADA: The rake: there's a rooster devil, I'm sure of it. He's Lucifer himself. I go near him he's at me with his I despise a flogging rooster. Where is he?
RUBY: I despise a flogging rooster. Where is he?
RUBY: Let's put him in a pot.
INMAN: ( they stop, turn ) I'd pay a dollar for an egg. A piece of cheese.
RUBY: Ada? Ada? You up?
ADA: ( opening her eyes ) It's still dark.
RUBY: Tell the cows that. It's late.
ADA: I have to eat something.
RUBY: Then you have to get up earlier. What's that?
ADA: A novel.
RUBY: ( heading outside ) You want to carry a book carry one you can write in
RUBY: we got our own story. Called Black Cove Farm: a catastrophe.
RUBY: I can spell it, too. C-a-t-a-s-t-r-o- phe. Learned the same place you did, in the schoolroom. That's one of the first words they taught me. Ruby Thewes, you are a ca-t-a-s-t-r-o-p-h-
RUBY: You mucking out?
RUBY: Three years I was in school before my daddy saying God rest his soul is like wishing him what he had in life, cause he lived to rest, he was born tired before my daddy decided there was better use for my backside than have it sat all day in front of a blackboard.
RUBY: Number One layout a winter garden for cool season crops: turnips, onions, cabbage, greens.
RUBY: Number Two: patch the shingles on the barn roof. Do we have a maul and I have no idea.
ADA: ( writing, holding the ladder ) I have no idea.
RUBY: I have no idea.
ADA: I have no idea.
RUBY: Number three: clay crocks for preserves. Tomatoes. Beans. Jams.
RUBY: Clear and turn this field. No harm done letting it go fallow, now we'll do well.
RUBY: Number fifteen
ADA: Number sixteen: let's get a martin colony going in the Gourd House. Keep away crows. You got one thing in abundance on this farm and that's What's a Gourd House?
RUBY: Number sixteen: let's get a martin colony going in the Gourd House. Keep away crows. You got one thing in abundance on this farm and that's What's a Gourd House?
ADA: What's a Gourd House?
RUBY: There's survival. On them trees. You got a cider press or would that be wishing on a blessing?
ADA: Actually, yes, I think we do.
INMAN: Don't let go. Just back up, nice and steady, do this all in reverse, you're going to end up with her draped back over your animal.
VEASEY: Don't pull that trigger. I am a man of God.
INMAN: I've killed several of them.
VEASEY: I mean I am God's minister.
INMAN: What part of God's business is throwing a woman down a gorge.
VEASEY: A slave woman, can you see that in this light? She's black as a bucket of tar.
INMAN: Is she dead?
VEASEY: Drugged her. Like you would a butterfly. And I care for her, that's the heartbreak of it.
VEASEY: She's got my bastard in her belly. What kind of pistol is that I never saw the like of it?
VEASEY: I'm begging you. It's better you blowout my brains than return me to this place.
INMAN: Where does she live?
VEASEY: In our house. She sleeps in our kitchen. You don't know me, friend, but the good Lord punished me with want. I am all appetite. That's all I do all day is want: food, the female Shut your mouth. I don't want a sermon every time I ask a question.
INMAN: Shut your mouth. I don't want a sermon every time I ask a question.
INMAN: This your place?
VEASEY: Dear God of misery.
INMAN: You're going to put her back where she sleeps.
VEASEY: I do that the Members will lynch me. Consorting with a nigger, adultery, siring a bastard while serving as their preacher. We're a strict congregation we've churched men for picking up a fiddle on the sabbath.
INMAN: So you reckoned to kill her.
VEASEY: There's a back door. Have pity.
VEASEY: ( whispering ) Thank you. I was going to do a grievous wrong.
VESEY: You tasted dark meat? Sweet as liquorice. I think I should go back up to my wife. She wakes at the slightest noise.
INMAN: You find me some paper and a pen.
VEASEY: You're not entitled to judge me! You're nothing but an outlier, plain as daylight!
RUBY: Morning. Pigs: you have any loose in the woods?
ADA: No. What? No. We bought our hams.
RUBY: There's a world more to a hog than the two hams! Lard, for example, we'll need plenty
RUBY: The catastrophe of Ada Monroe's I can feel you shutting your eyes.
RUBY: What's this wood?
ADA: I don't know. Locust?
RUBY: Where's North?
ADA: North is, North is
RUBY: Name me three herbs growing wild on this farm.
ADA: ( frustrated with Ruby and with herself ) I can't! I can't! All right? I can talk about farming in Latin. Will that do? I can read French. I know Harmony and Counterpoint. I know my Bible. I can name the principal rivers of Europe, but don't ask me to name one stream in this county. I can embroider, but I can't darn, I can arrange cut flowers, but I can't grow them. If a thing has a function, if I might do something with it, it wasn't considered suitable.
RUBY: Ruby, you could ask why? about pretty much everything to do with me.
ADA: Ruby, you could ask why? about pretty much everything to do with me.
ADA: This fence is about the first thing I've ever done that'll produce an actual result.
RUBY: So you never wrapped your legs around this Inman?
FERRYGIRL: For five dollars I wouldn't give a parched man a dipper of this Sign says ferry, five dollars.
INMAN: Sign says ferry, five dollars.
FERRYGIRL: This look like a ferry? My Daddy's dead, or gone off to the Federals, don't matter which. I'm the way across What's the name of this thing?
INMAN: What's the name of this thing?
FERRYGIRL: Nothing but the mighty Cape Fear River, is all.
FERRYGIRL: Nobody crosses this water unless they're running from someplace. Some cross one way, some the other: makes no difference, they're all running. You want to wait for your friends?
INMAN: I can give you thirty dollars script.
FERRYGIRL: Let's go.
VEASEY: Keep going. We're both in trouble.
INMAN: No. Get out.
VEASEY: It's Homeguard. Made me tell them all about you.
INMAN: I should have shot you when I had the chance.
VEASEY: I'm not looking for revenge, by the way. For what you did to me. No, I'm a Pilgrim now, like you, traveling the road, paying our dues, relying on the kindness of strangers.
INMAN: You're nothing like me and the last thing I want right now is a You recall Job in the scriptures? I will give free utterance to my complaint. I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. That's our friend here. They cut off my hair. Which was hard. I was vain about my hair. I had good curls. But I deserved it. I'm the Reverend Veasey. Have I seen you in church?
VEASEY: ( to Ferrygirl ) You recall Job in the scriptures? I will give free utterance to my complaint. I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. That's our friend here. ( to Inman ) They cut off my hair. Which was hard. I was vain about my hair. ( to Ferrygirl ) I had good curls. But I deserved it. I'm the Reverend Veasey. Have I seen you in church?
FERRYGIRL: I'm saving for a cowhide, and when I get it I aim to get a saddle made, and when I get me a saddle I'll save for a horse, and when I got a horse I'll throw on the saddle, and then you won't see my sorry ass round this swamp again.
VEASEY: What's that?
FERRYGIRL: Catfish. 'gator. Keep your hand in the boat. Already looks like some critter chewed his neck. Thirty more dollars, we can go to the cabin. I'll pull this dress over my head.
VEASEY: ( excited ) Have we got thirty dollars?
VEASEY: You okay?
INMAN: Jesus, god!
VEASEY: I figure that righteous, given our history. Otherwise I'd bear a grudge on our journey.
INMAN: There's nowhere I'm going with you except to Hellfire!
ADA: Agricola poetis viam non monstrat.
RUBY: Which means?
ADA: The farmer does not point out the road to a poet.
RUBY: Which means? Should be the other way Which means, I suppose, which means the poet should know where he's going.
ADA: Which means, I suppose, which means the poet should know where he's going.
RUBY: ( of Ada's hairdressing ) It's no wonder you're helpless and hopeless if it takes this long to fix your hair. ( of the Latin ) Say some more.
ADA: Terra mutata non mutat mores. It's appalling what's in my head.
RUBY: It's appalling what's in my head?
ADA: No, it means: A change of place does not change a character.
RUBY: Well that's surely true even in You can keep those earrings.
ADA: You can keep those earrings.
RUBY: We can't keep anything.
ADA: I have to keep the bangles. They were my mother's.
RUBY: Well that's all. The rest is for trading. Else they can bury you in your finery.
ADA: ( of her hair ) You're done.
RUBY: Good God! Okay.
ADA: I like it.
RUBY: Takes two minutes. That's what I
RUBY: How much do you love that piano?
RUBY: We're careful we'll get through the winter now. I made old man Roy give me ten of those sheep on account of I said they were so small put together they were no bigger than six proper My father always wanted sheep on this land.
ADA: My father always wanted sheep on this land.
RUBY: I'm sorry you had to lose your piano. I cut off my hair once, for money. My daddy got two dollars for it. Made a wig for a rich feller in
RUBY: Stobrod called himself a musician my daddy he could play six tune on a fiddle. Got himself shot dead at Petersburg. I was like his goat or some creature tethered to a post. He left me once, up the mountains. I was eight. He was gone over two weeks.
ADA: Oh Ruby.
RUBY: ( defiant ) I was all right! He'd walk forty miles for liquor and not forty inches for kindness.
ADA: And your mother?
RUBY: Never met her. We're the same in that regard. He said she was he told me a thousand stories she was a wolf or an indian or a donkey. Don't say much for him, except you know he'd be fast to work up a sweat on a tree if he thought there was pleasure in it.
RUBY: There's cows to milk.
VEASEY: Used to be as regular as morning prayers. Matter of fact I could set my watch by my bowels. That beeswax you fed me, day before yesterday, it stops a man up. Open my gut now they'd find turds stacked up like little black twigs.
VEASEY: Hey! Look at this! This is a good saw.
INMAN: ( getting up ) It's not yours. You take it, you make us another enemy. You're a Christian don' t you know your You'll find the good Lord very flexible on the subject of property. We could do a lot with this saw.
VEASEY: You'll find the good Lord very flexible on the subject of property. We could do a lot with this saw.
VEASEY: Why you in such a hurry the whole Hurry or slow the destination is always the same. It's only the journey that is different. That's either in the Good Book or I made it up.
VEASEY: Good day to you! My old bull, wandered off and died in this here creek. Fouled up our water is how I found it.
JUNIOR: My old bull, wandered off and died in this here creek. Fouled up our water is how I found it.
VEASEY: This is a tricky one.
VEASEY: The name for the Bull's member is a tassel. I learned that and never forgot it.
JUNIOR: Reckon I need a train of mules.
VEASEY: ( walking away ) I'm getting an idea. My saw is the remedy. Let's saw up some wood and make levers.
INMAN: Then what?
VEASEY: Lever him out. This'll work!
JUNIOR: Where you two sports heading?
INMAN: ( inscrutable ) I don't know where he's heading. I'm going down the road. And I got a good way to go before nightfall.
JUNIOR: ( acknowledging his attitude ) Charitable of you to make a stop. Ain't for me to be curious.
VEASEY: ( emerges from the woods ) How do you work this damn thing?
INMAN: ( to Veasey ) Give me that saw. ( to Junior ) Come on.
INMAN: Let's do this in chapters.
INMAN: You might want to leave off that water for a day or two.
JUNIOR: There'll be a tang, I'd imagine.
JUNIOR: There's my place. Hope you can stomach a yard chock-full of females. Brought my woman home, she showed up with her three so-called sisters and their brats. The noise in that place is something awful. It's why I go Looks a bit crooked.
VEASEY: ( considering the wild camber ) Looks a bit crooked.
JUNIOR: It is on a bit of a tilt. Them females. They all roll down one end each night!
VEASEY: Roll me over!
JUNIOR: In the clover
VEASEY: One good fart that'll tip over!
VEASEY: Oh God of my God! Hallelujah! What's up?
JUNIOR: What's up?
VEASEY: The Israelites! The tribes of Israel are about to flee from the banks of Egypt! Hallelujah!
INMAN: ( explaining to Junior ) He's got a shit coming on. It's ( bewildered ) And he's a Preacher? Like a Christian?
JUNIOR: ( bewildered ) And he's a Preacher? Like a Christian?
INMAN: Like a Christian.
JUNIOR: Good God.
JUNIOR: These two boys is stopping for supper. They're on the road to Atonement.
VEASEY: Atonement is not a place.
JUNIOR: So what is it when it's at home?
VEASEY: Those are fine examples of the female.
JUNIOR: Take them all and leave the saw. Be a sight more use.
SHYLA: ( reappearing ) If they want to get in a tub there's an hour before food.
JUNIOR: They love to scrub a man. Put the water on the boil. It's my liquor, gets their titties God damn! I was right about sheep droppings those stools like rock hard. Quite That's battered flesh. I could work a finger in there.
VEASEY: ( excited ) God damn! ( to Inman ) I was right about sheep droppings those stools like rock hard. Quite That's battered flesh. ( of his neck wound ) I could work a finger in there.
SHYLA: That's battered flesh. I could work a finger in there.
VEASEY: He's a hero. Took that wound at He doesn't know what I am. He's shy, ain't he?
INMAN: He doesn't know what I am. He's shy, ain't he?
SHYLA: ( to Veasey ) He's shy, ain't he?
VEASEY: Wait up a few minutes, I'll be in that tub, then we'll see who's a shy I want to poke my thumb in his holes.
SHYLA: I want to poke my thumb in his holes.
DOLLY: Lila says supper's up.
LILA: Junior grins, looks over at Inman, then nudges Veasey.
JUNIOR: He's gone now. Look! His eyes have Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae. That's a poem. That's a poem.
INMAN: ( vaguely, drunk ) Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae. That's a poem. That's a poem.
VEASEY: Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae. That's a poem. That's a poem.
DOLLY: Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae. That's a poem. That's a poem.
VEASEY: Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae. That's a poem. That's a poem.
VEASEY: Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae Da-da da-da da-da dae. .there's a poem there.
JUNIOR: I'm leaving soon as I'm full.
VEASEY: Really. Goodbye.
JUNIOR: Got a bunch of traps needs visiting. I'll be back tomorrow, before dark. You'll still be here?
VEASEY: That's my fervent prayer.
JUNIOR: My house is your house.
INMAN: ( suddenly ) Like to wash their hands and pray.
VEASEY: Say again?
INMAN: Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae.
VEASEY: That's Job. Don't say much but even liquored up there's a preacher in
INMAN: I'll say my goodbyes, got miles and miles to go before sunset. I'll just quickly lie down. I'm heading for that smokehouse and I'm ready to be washed clean of my
VEASEY: I'm heading for that smokehouse and I'm ready to be washed clean of my
JUNIOR: You go tend to him. I'll be seeing you.
DOLLY: Come on you get!
LILA: He's mine. You can go rub yourself off on the Preacher. Gonna make him hug me till I grunt.
LILA: Inman stirs, glazed.
LILA: ( kneeling down to him ) You want to see what Mamma's got for
LILA: That's good. Ain't that sweet?
LILA: You just get on and ride me all the way to China.
LILA: You shy? You need a hand? Let's have a look see what we can
JUNIOR: You little bitch! Look at you! Cover yourself up!
VEASEY: I had a special prayer you'd come
SALLY: Ada Monroe and Ruby Thewes! Look at you both!
RUBY: Look at us both what?
SALLY: Like a coupla scarecrows after a We need a scarecrow, birds eating up half our winter garden.
RUBY: We need a scarecrow, birds eating up half our winter garden.
ADA: Sally's right. We should both stop toiling and stand a while with our arms stretch out. I'll volunteer.
RUBY: We got something for you.
ADA: For all your kindness. Coffee. And a That's real coffee. It ain't hickory and dirt.
RUBY: That's real coffee. It ain't hickory and dirt.
SALLY: ( taking the gifts ) Thank you both. ( of the pie ) Ruby, I look forward to this. We all do. Esco and me.
RUBY: ( grinning at Ada ) She made it.
ADA: I made it.
SALLY: Good God in Heaven.
RUBY: ( by way of recommendation ) I'm still alive.
RUBY: We'll be getting along.
SALLY: ( nodding ) I know Esco's going to be real sorry he missed you. You all take care.
RUBY: That strike you as odd?
ADA: Stood at her front door?
RUBY: Stood at her front door?
ADA: Number one I know that woman all my life. I never stood outside her house she'd invite a wolf inside if it knocked on the door.
RUBY: Number one I know that woman all my life. I never stood outside her house she'd invite a wolf inside if it knocked on the door.
ADA: Perhaps, I don't know, perhaps she was busy.
RUBY: Number two Old Man Swanger was inside that house: I could smell his pipe burning. Number three look at these fields.
ADA: What about them?
RUBY: We came by here a week ago, they were waist high in hay.
INMAN: He's dead.
INMAN: This man's dead!
VEASEY: Am I so altered that they don't see
VEASEY: I christened that child.
SHEFFIELD: I'm looking to get out of this. They drag us back to fight we're just target practice for the Federal boys.
INMAN: You run, we're all running with you, the lame and the stupid, of which we number both.
SHEFFIELD: Either way we're fucked. Run or don't Just give me some warning so I can tell the guard I'm not getting shot again for some cause I don't believe in.
INMAN: Just give me some warning so I can tell the guard I'm not getting shot again for some cause I don't believe in.
VEASEY: ( mesmerized ) That's Rebecca. That's Rebecca. ( he hisses )
REBECCA: Is it well with you? I've been repenting for what I did. I've walked the road of atonement.
VEASEY: Is it well with you? I've been repenting for what I did. I've walked the road of atonement.
REBECCA: Your curls is all gone.
GUARD: ( holding his head, to Rebecca ) God Bless you.
VEASEY: ( holding his head, to Rebecca ) God Bless you.
VEASEY: I'm with you. I got a baby coming.
INMAN: But it's too late. SHEFFIELD JERKS FORWARD IN FRONT OF THE TRAIN, PULLING ALL THE OTHERS WITH HIM, their reluctance tempered by the possibility of being crushed by the oncoming SOMEHOW THE CHAIN GANG GETS ACROSS THE TRACK, stumbling and chaotic, the chains yanking tight, then loose, the tight causing a collapse, the loose a recovery. They run alongside the train, blocking themselves from the fire of the Guard, Sheffield screaming tactics and then, as the train starts to pull past them, they run up the bank, now all as a unit scrambling to the steep summit.
BROWN: Get these sacks of shit under the
RUBY: Someone's been in the corncrib.
ADA: You sure?
RUBY: It's a coon or possum. Scratched out a fist hole in the side. This place! I'm telling you we grow, others eat. I'll go into town, take the last of the cider and trade for a
TEAGUE: What you looking to catch?
RUBY: With that trap.
TEAGUE: With that trap.
RUBY: We got some critter stealing our Still but the two of you up there, is it?
TEAGUE: Still but the two of you up there, is it?
RUBY: You know it.
TEAGUE: When we get a cold night, camped out, trying to keep the rule of law, protecting girls like you from Federals and deserters, that's a thought warms us ain't it? the two of you up there on my Grand-daddy's farm, dressed in men's clothes. Warms us right up. What you got in the sacks? Looks like human heads! Eh? Looks like a bunch of heads. We got
SALLY: I'm not stopping, Sally. I'm not snooping neither. Just you should know Teague and his boys are lurking down by Pigeon River, the old mill.
RUBY: I'm not stopping, Sally. I'm not snooping neither. Just you should know Teague and his boys are lurking down by Pigeon River, the old mill.
SALLY: ( after a beat ) You tell Ada that was a good pie.
MADDY: Mind that Billy, he's the jealous
MADDY: Pay no attention to me. What happened to your head?
INMAN: And your neck?
MADDY: And your neck?
INMAN: Different fighting.
MADDY: You're the color of a cadaver. I'll fix you. I can fix you up.
INMAN: ( speaking of his spirit ) Mister you could fix me I'd be in your everlasting debt.
MADDY: Debts, fighting them words don't mean much round here. For the record, I'm a female of the species.
RUBY: The hat's a nice touch.
RUBY: You're quiet.
ADA: I cried for my Daddy. I dressed up the scarecrow in his suit and he came back, his arms out, said you never cried enough, you never cried Well now you did.
RUBY: Well now you did.
ADA: Then I thought, it's not my Daddy, it's my sweetheart. I saw him once that way, when I looked down Sally's well. So I dressed the scarecrow in the dress I wore the day he left. In case his spirit flies over looking out for me. That looks terrible.
ADA: I bargained like Lucifer. We can make all kinds of good eating.
RUBY: I bargained like Lucifer. We can make all kinds of good eating.
ADA: Such as?
RUBY: Cabbage. Slaw, sauerkraut, cabbage soup, fried cabbage, stuffed
TEAGUE: The riders slowly fan out, almost as if choreographed.
ESCO: Don't spread out. Why they spreading I'm not spreading out. I'm sitting
TEAGUE: I'm not spreading out. I'm sitting
TEAGUE: Never knew a man worked in his field with a shotgun.
ESCO: There's a war on.
TEAGUE: Got to watch out for the Bogey Man.
ESCO: Get off my land.
TEAGUE: Your boys come back.
ESCO: Ain't seen my boys in four years. They're fighting other boys, not old men and women.
TEAGUE: ( to his men ) He means us. He's referring there to ( to Esco ) So you won't care if we take a look What I gotta give you? A chicken? A ( shrugs ) Right then.
ESCO: What I gotta give you? A chicken? A Right then.
TEAGUE: ( shrugs ) Right then.
ESCO: Right then.
TEAGUE: Thing is you got one barrel and there's five of us. Not a fair fight.
BOSIE: Bogey Man! Bogey Man!
RUBY: What's that?
TEAGUE: You're harbouring deserters. I can confiscate every animal on this farm, every plate, every sheet, every little pellet of chicken shit I can confiscate your old lady's asshole, so don't offer me a bird.
TEAGUE: ( sharply )
TEAGUE: You got your bait. Set it on the
RUBY: I can't get this damn thing off her.
ADA: ( at the well, looking down ) Dear Lord in heaven.
RUBY: Ada, I can't get this off her!
RUBY: What darling? What?
RUBY: She's saying don't bother.
ADA: She grabs a thick log off the stack, staggers back and in a second they've inserted it into the fence and levered it up and away from Sally's hands. They fall back onto the dirt. Ruby cradles Sally. Ada nods towards the well.
ADA: There's someone down there. I think it's Esco.
RUBY: This world won't stand long. God won't let it stand this way long.
INMAN: How long have I been sleeping?
MADDY: Not long enough.
INMAN: I can't stop here. I'm a deserter. They find me here things could be bad for you.
MADDY: What they going to do? Cut short my young life? Sit down before you fall
INMAN: How long you been up here?
MADDY: What year are we? '63?
INMAN: Last time I checked it was '64.
MADDY: I'd say twenty six years.
INMAN: Twenty six years!
MADDY: I could move on anytime. I've seen most of the world anyway, Richmond in the North, south almost to Charleston. You're going somewhere or you are somewhere, what's the
MADDY: I've learned a person can survive off pretty much of a goat. I can't abide a chicken, but a goat gives you company and milk and cheese and then, when you need it, good meat.
MADDY: So you've been fighting?
INMAN: ( as if he might break ) I could be at killing for days sometimes, in the hand to hand, my feet against the feet of my enemy and I always killed him and he never killed me.
MADDY: He gave it a try, to look at you.
INMAN: I guess he did.
MADDY: See I think there's a plan. There's a design. For each and every one of
MADDY: You look at nature, a bird flies somewhere, picks up a seed, shits the seed out, a plant grows. Bird's got a job, seed's got a job.
MADDY: Take one of these now with your food.
MADDY: Swallow it. If you die I'll give you your money back.
MADDY: Our minds aren't made to hold on to the particulars of pain, the way we do bliss.
INMAN: It's true.
MADDY: What is?
INMAN: What you remember.
MADDY: What's her name?
INMAN: ( At the food ) Sometimes I think I'm crazy when I'm just hungry ( another mouthful ) Ada Monroe.
MADDY: And is she waiting for you?
INMAN: She was. I don't know. Or if she'd know me. I'm like the boy who goes out in winter for firewood comes back in the spring with a whistle.
MADDY: Now drink this. It visits the pain. And you'll sleep.
INMAN: I've had to put myself in the way of people's kindness.
MADDY: I hope you found it.
INMAN: The passenger pigeons fly south, the berries ripen. Whether I see them or not, whether a man dies, or a war is That's the laudanum getting to you. That's good. Say something more. Raise that up for me.
MADDY: That's the laudanum getting to you. That's good. Say something more. Raise that up for me.
INMAN: She gave me a book. Ada Monroe. Man by the name of Bartram. Wrote about his travels. I carried that book through every battle. I left it someplace, got to get it back. Sometimes just reading the name of a place near home Sorell Cove, Fire Scale Ridge was enough to bring me to tears. Thing is I've been thinking those places belonged to people before us, to the Indian and he had a different name. What did he call Sorell Cove? How can a name not even the real name break your heart? It's her, she's the place I'm heading. And I hardly know her. So how can a person who's maybe not even a real person I don't know what I'm talking about I have to close my eyes.
RUBY: It's a man.
ADA: What is?
RUBY: Raiding our corn. Got him in the trap. That's him yelping.
ADA: You're not going to shoot him!
RUBY: I don't want him to shoot me. Can you fire this thing?
ADA: ( making it clear she can't )
RUBY: Listen up you got a barrel trained on your rear-end.
STOBROD: Get me out of this dang thing. My fist's about to drop off.
RUBY: You got a weapon?
STOBROD: No ma'am. I'm begging you. I'm already on my knees, otherwise I'd get down on them.
RUBY: ( suddenly recognises the voice ) Unbelievable! Stobrod Thewes.
STOBROD: Ruby? God damn!
ADA: ( to Ada, disgusted ) That's my daddy.
RUBY: ( to Ada, disgusted ) That's my daddy.
STOBROD: Just so's you know I can eat while she's doing this in case you're holding off.
RUBY: Just so's you know you're not eating inside. Number One they hang people round here for taking in deserters. Number two even if they gave out prizes you'd still eat outside.
STOBROD: You're scarred.
RUBY: I'm what?
STOBROD: Your heart. Scarred. I did wrong to You'd be scarred. You'd be really scarred if I hadn't wrapped them trap teeth in sacking. Which was her I hurt you.
RUBY: You'd be scarred. You'd be really scarred if I hadn't wrapped them trap teeth in sacking. Which was her I hurt you.
STOBROD: I hurt you.
RUBY: Good God!
STOBROD: I wrote fifty tunes with you in mind. Ruby this, Ruby that, Ruby with the eyes that sparkle.
RUBY: Hey! Let's agree: you beat me, you abandoned me, you ignored me, you beat me some more all of that is better than Ruby with the eyes that I'm changed. People change. War changes people something terrible. Ruby's told you I've no doubt I wasn't always the best.
STOBROD: I'm changed. People change. War changes people something terrible. Ruby's told you I've no doubt I wasn't always the best.
RUBY: You were an asshole.
STOBROD: I can't disagree with that. I was.
RUBY: Get him out of here!
STOBROD: Music's changed me. I'm full of music, darling. I wish I'd brung my fiddle Hey Ruby! Got a new fiddle it's got a little snake's rattle in the body took it off a dead federal in Virginia. That's a beautiful fiddle. It's full of tunes, Ruby. Don't know if it's from that little rattle locked up in it, or from something untied my heart.
RUBY: You're all set.
STOBROD: ( sincerely ) Bless you both.
RUBY: Ain't you got a proper coat?
STOBROD: Darling, I'm fine. And you just say the word, I won't come back neither. I don't want to put either you or your mistress here in any bother.
ADA: I'm not Ruby's employer.
STOBROD: Oh, okay, who is?
RUBY: ( Stobrod digests this ) I'll make up food for you, you come Sundays before it's light, I'll leave it behind the Old Frazier Mill.
STOBROD: Do you know who really needs a coat, darling, is my partner, fat boy name of Pangle. We're hiding up in the caves and he feels the cold like a thin man, but ain't no coat'll fit I love you, Ruby. In case the sky falls on our head. You're a good
RUBY: He is so full of manure, that man, we could lay him on the dirt and grow another one just like him.
ADA: So that's Stobrod Thewes.
RUBY: It is and that's the last you'll see of him.
MADDY: That's medicine and goatmeat. You're sick of both.
INMAN: I have a deal to thank you for.
MADDY: And that's just for show, or if you can get close enough a wild
RUBY: Get on back where you came from!
ADA: a source of little visible delight, But necessary.
RUBY: She ain't gonna marry Linton, is she? She said whatever our souls are made of his and mine are the same. You can't say that and then marry Linton.
ADA: We'll find out.
RUBY: I'm not waiting until tomorrow.
ADA: I'm not waiting until tomorrow.
RUBY: I'm not waiting until tomorrow.
ADA: Ruby, I'm falling asleep.
RUBY: Little visible delight, but necessary. I like that.
INMAN: I'm one man alone. I'm a Confederate soldier on furlough. I have no bad intention. I need shelter and food.
INMAN: Can I at least sleep in the corn crib just for some shelter? I'll be on my way come morning.
INMAN: Fair enough.
SARA: There's some beans and corn pone, all I got. You better come in.
INMAN: Thank you.
SARA: I'm alone here, as you can see, with my baby. I need to believe you mean no harm.
INMAN: No, I mean to give it to you.
SARA: I don't want it. I had my way they'd take metal altogether out of this world. Every blade, every gun.
INMAN: Is your baby sick?
SARA: He cries. I don't know. He cries a lot. My man is dead. He took his wound at Fredericksburg. Never saw his boy.
INMAN: I'm sorry.
SARA: It's pretty much what you'll get if you knock on any door of this war. Man dead, woman left. It's mean food but it's hot.
SARA: It's mean food but it's hot.
INMAN: ( ashamed of his hunger ) There's no hunting on the road, just cress and
SARA: I need to feed this man, if you could look away.
SARA: Used to have a cow, few goats. Raiders took them. Made me kill our own dog on the porch. That poor creature watched over me. Nothing left now save a hog and couple of chickens to live off till spring. I'll have to kill that hog and make sense of the flesh and divisions which is something I never did.
INMAN: I could do that for you in the I'm not asking.
SARA: I'm not asking.
INMAN: It's what I'd gladly do for you for what you're gladly doing for me. I'm Inman by the way. That's my name.
SARA: I'm Sara. My baby's Ethan.
INMAN: Glad to know you both.
SARA: You look about his size. He was another man straight up and down.
SARA: I don't even have a blanket.
INMAN: I got a blanket.
SARA: I'll leave you the lamp.
SARA: They fit?
SARA: I'll say good night.
SARA: Will you come inside?
SARA: Could you do something for me? Do you think you could lie here, next to me, and not need to go further?
INMAN: I don't know. I'll try.
INMAN: I'll go. I'll go, shall I?
SARA: I don't want you to.
PANGLE: ( of Sally ) She don't speak.
STOBROD: She can't speak. I told you.
PANGLE: ( smiles at Sally ) Is she feeble then?
STOBROD: ( to Sally ) Don't mind him. ( to Ruby ) Hey Ruby: what about this?
STOBROD: Don't make that face you listen: c'mon Georgia.
GEORGIA: There's snow in the air.
RUBY: Don't sleep here.
STOBROD: We won't.
ADA: It's bitter, they could stop one They stop one night, they'll want to stop two.
RUBY: They stop one night, they'll want to stop two.
PANGLE: This coat's warm.
STOBROD: What about next Sunday? That'll be the New Year. It's gonna be a better The war's over in a month.
RUBY: The war's over in a month.
GEORGIA: The war's over in a month.
RUBY: He said that a month ago.
ADA: ( shaking Stobrod's hand in goodnight ) It started off being over in a month.
STOBROD: Miss Ada. Merry Christmas.
ADA: Merry Christmas. Pangle. Georgia.
GEORGIA: 'Night now.
PANGLE: 'Night now.
STOBROD: That's my Ruby.
GEORGIA: She's an original.
STOBROD: You think the Good Lord would forgive an old cold fool if he changed his mind? Ada said it herself it was
RUBY: What kind of name's Georgia?
ADA: It's where he comes from, it's not his name.
RUBY: I know that's meant to be the ugliest state under the heavens.
ADA: Why do you care what his name is?
RUBY: ( a funny look, then ) What's that cluster of Stars?
ADA: What about them shaped like a That's Taurus the bull, and that's Gemini and that's Orion's big dog, Canis Major.
RUBY: What about them shaped like a That's Taurus the bull, and that's Gemini and that's Orion's big dog, Canis Major.
ADA: That's Taurus the bull, and that's Gemini and that's Orion's big dog, Canis Major.
RUBY: Listen to her, Sal. She's turned into a highland girl.
ADA: I could always name the stars, Ruby, that was never my problem.
ADA: I love you darling. In case that big old sky falls on our heads. And I love you, too. Sal.
RUBY: It's sad, Sal. It's a c-a-t-a-s-t-r-
SARA: Get out of here, quick!
SARA: Federals are coming. They find you here it'll go bad on all of us.
INMAN: I can try and fight them.
SARA: No, my baby. Please no! Just get.
PISTOL: We got all day.
SARA: My baby's sick! Cover him up! He's shaking! Have some pity.
SARA: I got nothing. I swear.
NYM: That ain't necessarily so.
SARA: Yes! Take me inside! Let's all go inside! Take my baby inside and then we'll do whatever you want.
SARA: ( screaming ) There's nothing! You take that hog I'm as good as dead. Cover up my
BARDOLPH: This is ready to get a fit going. It's shuddering. It's gone blue.
PISTOL: ( to Nym ) How long does he want? Hey! Leave some for the rest of us.
INMAN: Move away from the baby.
BARDOLPH: Don't shoot.
INMAN: Take off your boots. Take off your pants, and your shirt.
BARDOLPH: Don't shoot me, please. We're starving. We haven't eaten.
INMAN: You'd better get running before you catch your death of cold.
BARDOLPH: ( nods, terrified ) Thanks, thank you. I will.
SARA: Inman nods. She collects up the knapsacks, including Inman's, and goes back inside the house with them. Inman squats, eating, glancing back towards the cabin. There's the sudden shocking report of a revolver. Inman, knowing what it is, goes slowly towards the house and its two dead bodies. His own face is a rictus, the eyes thin slits. If he gave into his grief it would never cease.
ADA: Do you think he's dead?
RUBY: ( shrugs ) This snow. Isn't it supposed to fall with bad news?
ADA: ( shrugs ) This snow. Isn't it supposed to fall with bad news?
RUBY: Bad news is girls get working. I'm going to round up the animals. This'll settle.
GEORGIA: What d'you reckon? Think we could eat this?
STOBROD: You cook something long enough you can eat anything.
PANGLE: ( prodding it ) It's frozen. How long it been there You hungry?
STOBROD: You hungry?
PANGLE: Not very long.
STOBROD: Not very long.
STOBROD: Pangle takes another stick, burns his fingers.
PANGLE: ( takes a bite from his skewer ) Don't taste much like venison.
GEORGIA: ( takes a bite from his skewer ) Don't taste much like venison.
PANGLE: It's good. I think it's good.
TEAGUE: Evening. Hope we didn't disturb you.
STOBROD: You're all right.
TEAGUE: Name's Teague. Do I know you?
STOBROD: Teague slides off his horse, approaches the fire.
TEAGUE: You a deserter? don't mind if I just warm up at your fire. That your wife?
STOBROD: Who? That's a he!
TEAGUE: He your wife?
STOBROD: We're musicians. He picks the banjo, I got a fiddle.
TEAGUE: ( to his men ) Look pretty romantic by the fire. Don't they? ( to Stobrod ) Your boyfriend's got a nice bit of flesh on him. Close your eyes slip inside that shirt get two good handfuls dark enough I'd be willing. I'm just kidding. ( to his men ) Tell him, I'm just kidding.
BOSIE: He's just kidding.
TEAGUE: Did you answer my question about your military status?
STOBROD: Discharged. Took a wound at Oh, so like a hero's discharge.
TEAGUE: Oh, so like a hero's discharge.
STOBROD: I guess.
TEAGUE: And your boyfriend?
STOBROD: The military wouldn't take him. He can't fight. He's simple. He's got a mind no bigger'n a pickled walnut.
TEAGUE: I'm sorry he's fat, he's simple and got titties but you're insisting he ain't a woman. God damn! Don't that sausage smell outstanding.
STOBROD: ( he's very nervous ) Miqhty outstanding.
TEAGUE: Mighty outstanding! There's a new phrase. Mighty outstanding. Listen, don't tell me you left your papers Which papers?
STOBROD: Which papers?
TEAGUE: Your hero's discharge. For mighty outstanding valour.
STOBROD: They're, they're, they're at my house.
TEAGUE: ( enjoying himself ) And where, where, where is your house?
STOBROD: Down the mountain.
TEAGUE: But you're up the mountain.
STOBROD: Hunting. Drinking.
TEAGUE: On honeymoon. I'm pretty fucking funny tonight.
BOSIE: Is he going to play? You gonna play that fiddle?
STOBROD: Sure. Sure. Hey, wake up!
TEAGUE: Evening, Mrs.
PANGLE: ( looking around ) Where's Georgia?
TEAGUE: ( interested ) Where's Georgia?
STOBROD: He don't know what he's saying. We were talking about Georgia early on maybe heading down there.
TEAGUE: Georgia's like my armpit. Worse, it's like yours. Want some sausage?
PANGLE: Thanks. You is Home Guard?
TEAGUE: Yes, ma'am.
PANGLE: You is Teague?
TEAGUE: ( to the others ) I'm known!
STOBROD: He don't know what he's saying.
PANGLE: ( quoting ) That bastard Teague.
TEAGUE: Bad words. Folk always put the curse words in front of your name.
PANGLE: Bad words. Folk always put the curse words in front of your name.
STOBROD: Mr. Teague wants us to play.
PANGLE: We heard there were deserters in these parts. Hiding out in a big Not come to my ears.
TEAGUE: We heard there were deserters in these parts. Hiding out in a big Not come to my ears.
STOBROD: Not come to my ears.
TEAGUE: You don't know where this cave is?
STOBROD: No, sir.
PANGLE: You do, Stobes! He means
STOBROD: Right, right! he means, there is a cave, right, it's up over the other side, big cave, we played some music up there, never occurred to me they were deserters. Near Bearpen Branch.
PANGLE: Ain't nowhere near Bearpen Branch! It's this side! He's always getting lost. That cave we live there! it's over on Big Stomp. Tell you how I always find it. There's a big old locust tree fell down across the path, that points straight at it, like a finger, always a dozen squirrels round that tree. You gets to the tree, sit on it, and there's your entrance, straight in front of you, tree points at it. Come right to your hand, them squirrels Chrrrpppp! Chrrrrppp!
TEAGUE: Sounds good. Okay, let's eat, let's hear some music.
STOBROD: I call this tune: Ruby's Lament.
PANGLE: What'd you make of that?
BOSIE: Stand over by that tree.
TEAGUE: Stand over by that tree.
STOBROD: Over by that tree. Over there. Take your boyfriend.
TEAGUE: Over by that tree. Over there. Take your boyfriend.
STOBROD: Come on.
TEAGUE: Don't smile.
PANGLE: Quit smiling.
TEAGUE: Quit smiling.
STOBROD: He always smiles. He don't mean nothing by it. I told him this world's got nothing worth a smile.
TEAGUE: Put your hat over your face.
PANGLE: What do you mean?
TEAGUE: Cover your face with your hat.
ADA: I told Georgia he can stop here, sleep in the barn. He's got nothing inside him. He'd walk out of here and die in the snow.
RUBY: He can milk the cows. I was worrying about that. It'll be dark in a couple of hours. I's ten hours climb from here. He's drawn a map.
ADA: ( boiling ) You know these fools stayed the night in the Mill? That's Stobrod he can't do one good thing without adding the bad. Left tracks in the snow all the way up for them Home Guards to follow. That's a sign says shoot me!
RUBY: ( boiling ) You know these fools stayed the night in the Mill? That's Stobrod he can't do one good thing without adding the bad. Left tracks in the snow all the way up for them Home Guards to follow. That's a sign says shoot me!
ADA: Ruby, I'm so sorry.
RUBY: We should get going.
RUBY: Every piece of this is a man's bullshit. They call this a war a cloud over the land, but they made the weather. Then they stand in the rain and say: shit! It's raining! If I cry one tear for my Daddy I stole it off a crocodile.
ADA: I don't understand.
RUBY: Maybe Teague's took him. They did that with the Swanger boys didn't, they? dragged them into town, then strung them up as warning. it's snowed since, so I can't read the story on the ground.
RUBY: Let's dig.
ADA: Ruby! Ruby!
RUBY: He's still breathing! God damn! Daddy; Daddy it's Ruby. Don't you die on me again. He's still breathing!
RUBY: Pack a pan full of snow. I need good clean water, boiled up.
ADA: Let's get him home. We have herbs there and it's warm.
RUBY: He'll die first. He's got hardly no blood left in him.
ADA: He'll die lying here.
RUBY: There's a place further on up. Used to be. Old Cherokee place. There's good water right by it.
ADA: This horse is weary. He's ready to give up the ghost.
ADA: Good boy. That's warmer, isn't it.
ADA: I'm getting firewood.
ADA: That wood that sound when it burns that mean more snow?
RUBY: Yes, it do, country girl.
ADA: Turn round and go back where you came from.
INMAN: Ada? Ada Monroe?
ADA: I do not know you. Then I believe I made a mistake.
INMAN: Then I believe I made a mistake.
INMAN: If I knew where to go I'd go there.
ADA: ( finally recognising him )
ADA: You'd better come with me.
ADA: Ruby, this is Inman.
RUBY: Congratulations, I should send you out with a shotgun more often. He looks as he needs sleep.
INMAN: I may need to.
RUBY: Be my guest. You shot or something?
INMAN: Not lately.
RUBY: ( Inman nods, Ruby to Ada ) He woke up.
ADA: Said your mommy's name was Grace then closed his eyes again.
RUBY: Said your mommy's name was Grace then closed his eyes again.
ADA: He's asleep. They both are.
RUBY: I'm not surprised. Your man looks played out.
ADA: I saw him. I realize now.
RUBY: Saw him when?
ADA: In Sally Swanger's well. A tunnel of trees. The man like a black smudge in the snow, the sun behind him.
RUBY: Well there you are.
ADA: Funny thing is it wasn't the same. The image. It wasn't snowing. And in the well, he was, as if he were You probably don't remember it right.
RUBY: You probably don't remember it right.
ADA: I remember it exactly. There were crows, these black crows flying towards me. I thought I was seeing him fall. Instead I was seeing him come back to me. All this while I've been packing ice around my heart. How will I make it melt?
RUBY: Better get a fire going. I've got big plans for that farm. Got a vision in my mind of how that Cove needs to be.
ADA: I know you have.
RUBY: There's not a thing we can't do
INMAN: I'm sorry. I was trying to be quiet.
ADA: I couldn't sleep.
INMAN: I got no appetite left to be in a room with wounded men.
ADA: I can't see your face.
INMAN: It's not a face you recognised.
ADA: Did you get my letters?
INMAN: I got three letters. Carried them in that book you gave me. The Bertram.
ADA: I must have sent 100. Did you write to me?
INMAN: Whenever I could. If you never got them I can summarize.
ADA: No, it's
INMAN: I pray you're well. I pray I'm in your thoughts. You are all that keeps me from sliding into some dark place.
ADA: But how did I keep you? We barely knew each other. A few moments.
INMAN: A thousand moments. They're like a bag of tiny diamonds glittering in a black heart. Don't matter if they're real or things I made up. The shape of your neck. The way you felt under my hands when I pulled you to me.
ADA: Your boots, one polished, one not yet polished.
INMAN: You're playing a piano and I'm standing outside.
ADA: I'm playing a piano and you're standing outside.
INMAN: That kiss which I've kissed again every day of my walking.
ADA: Every day of my waiting.
INMAN: Maybe you can't see my face, but if you could see my inside, my whatever you want to name it, my spirit, that's the fear I have deeper than any gash on my neck. I think I'm ruined. They kept trying to put me in the ground, but I wasn't ready, no ma'am, no more ready than that scoundrel in there's not ready to die on us. But if I had goodness, I lost it. If I had anything tender in me I shot it
RUBY: Number one shut this door, it's Number two shut that door, it's I'm laying on my back, with my fingers poked in my ears trying to shut out who's got a bag of diamonds and who's got boots needs polishing, If you want to get three feet up a bull's ass listen to what sweethearts whisper to each other.
RUBY: In fact, if you're going to wimble all night I'm going to sleep in with
ADA: Now I can't see anything.
INMAN: I'll say goodnight.
ADA: I don't think Ruby's vacating my hut so that you can sleep in a different
ADA: Come in.
ADA: Whatever comes to pass between you and me, I want Ruby to stay in Black As long as she wants. And if she never leaves I'll be glad.
INMAN: As long as she wants. And if she never leaves I'll be glad.
ADA: As long as she wants. And if she never leaves I'll be glad.
INMAN: More a question could she put up with me.
ADA: And you understand she's my friend, she's not a hired hand and she doesn't empty a night jar unless it's her This war's made some things pointless. It's hard to imagine a wedding. I think even my father would recognize Ada, I want to marry you. If you'll have me.
INMAN: This war's made some things pointless. It's hard to imagine a wedding. I think even my father would recognize Ada, I want to marry you. If you'll have me.
ADA: This war's made some things pointless. It's hard to imagine a wedding. I think even my father would recognize Ada, I want to marry you. If you'll have me.
INMAN: Ada, I want to marry you. If you'll have me.
ADA: Isn't there's some religion where you just have to say I marry you, three times, and then you're man and I marry you. I marry you. I marry
INMAN: I marry you. I marry you. I marry
INMAN: Why's that funny?
ADA: No, I think it's I divorce you three times and then you're not married I can wait for you.
INMAN: I can wait for you.
ADA: You waited enough. I certainly did. I marry you. I marry you. I marry
ADA: I'm sorry about the way I look. In these clothes. And there are so many buttons. Will you turn your back?
INMAN: Not for all the gold dollars in the Federal Bank.
INMAN: You go ahead. I'll follow with the horse at a pace your daddy can We can all go together.
ADA: We can all go together.
INMAN: It's safer this way. No one has quarrel with you.
RUBY: He's right.
INMAN: ( to Ruby ) I gather I need permission if I reckon on living at Black Cove.
INMAN: We'll get to you by nightfall.
ADA: You be safe.
INMAN: Your Mr. Bartram speaks about some category of fly born on the hide of a cow. It flies up into a tree and waits and waits until it smells cow. It can wait a year, two years, I don't know, maybe longer. Then a cow comes along and it wakes up, flies down, lays its eggs on the cow. There's purpose for you.
ADA: And am I the fly in this story, or the cow?
STOBROD: You come up the mountain for me, darling, I'd be dead otherwise, dead and gone.
RUBY: You'd have found some other fool to rescue you.
STOBROD: He's sweet on you, that Georgia boy.
RUBY: If you say a thing and then cough it's a lie. Daddy, stay on that horse, and don't lose him or sell him. We'll need him on the farm.
RUBY: I hope that Georgia boy's been seeing to the animals.
ADA: I thought you were thinking on him!
RUBY: I was not. I was thinking on swollen udders and before you say same I'm saying nothing.
ADA: I'm saying nothing.
RUBY: Miss lovey-dovey!
INMAN: ( quietly to Stobrod ) Don't look round.
STOBROD: Got it.
INMAN: How many men does he have?
STOBROD: There were five. You can't reason with that man.
INMAN: ( takes off his gloves ) I got a conversation stopper. ( they're getting closer ) Closer we get to that broken ground the better.
INMAN: You hold on tight, do you hear? When I say three, look round, nice and One, two, three.
STOBROD: One, two, three.
INMAN: One, two, three.
TEAGUE: God damn! You're a hard fucker to put down. Good directions to that cave from the fat boy saw the squirrels, sat on the tree made some friends, brought some back with me.
INMAN: Come out of there.
BOSIE: No, sir. Here's fine.
INMAN: I just have to shoot the horse from under you.
BOSIE: Shoot her. She's not mine. You riding Mr Teague's mare?
INMAN: I am.
BOSIE: He dead?
INMAN: I hope so. Look, how old are you? Give me your gun and ride home, I'm done fighting. I'm sick of it.
BOSIE: I give you my gun you'll shoot me I will not shoot you, but nor am I walking down that mountain looking over my shoulder for you.
INMAN: I will not shoot you, but nor am I walking down that mountain looking over my shoulder for you.
BOSIE: That's what they call a conundrum. I tell you what I've got on my side.
INMAN: What have you got on your side?
BOSIE: The confidence of youth.
ADA: You bring that lamb outside.
GRACE: What are you doing!
ADA: He came out dead, love.
GRACE: Don't kill him!
ADA: I'm not going to kill him. But we have to try something or else he's going to die.
ADA: Isn't that a small mercy.
ADA: ( laughing ) Hot hot hot hot hot!!!
ADA: Grace Inman, nobody said eat. Mr. Thewes.
ADA: For good friends, good food, good family: for all our blessings Oh Lord we thank thee. Amen.
ALL: Amen !
THE END: Writers : Charles Frazier Anthony Minghella
