COLOMBIANA: Written by Robert Mark Kamen & Luc Besson
VOICE: The page of a notebook turns, revealing neat cursive handwriting, covers the comic.
MOTHER: Cat! Is your homework finished Working on it Mama. Her mother, taking time off from packing, comes over to Cat, and turns the page of the notebook to reveal the Lara Croft comic and it's copy.
CAT: Working on it Mama. Her mother, taking time off from packing, comes over to Cat, and turns the page of the notebook to reveal the Lara Croft comic and it's copy.
MOTHER: You draw beautifully my love, but if you want to be something in life you have to study.
CAT: I am studying Mama. I want to be a super hero. Her mother turns the page back to the lessons.
MOTHER: Better to be a doctor. A lawyer.
CAT: Are we going to see Uncle Emilio?
MOTHER: I don't know. Just waiting to hear from your father. Cat looks up at a picture on the wall of the family. Cat, her mother, and her father. Her face carries a bit of I can't believe this. Mid 40'S, a gentleman, calm, courteous, impeccably dressed.
CLOSE ON: DON LUIS
DON LUIS: I can't believe this. Mid 40'S, a gentleman, calm, courteous, impeccably dressed.
FABIO: Why not? Cat's father. Off to the side, Don Luis's right hand man, MARCO, stands like any right hand, unobtrusive.
DON LUIS: Because I love you Fabio. Like a And I love you Don Luis. Like a He turns to Marco.
FABIO: And I love you Don Luis. Like a He turns to Marco.
DON LUIS: Can you believe this guy Marco? We started when we were little.how old were we Fabio?
FABIO: DON LUIS DON LUIS
DON LUIS: Ten year old bastards stealing apples from the carts in the market. After all we've been through. And now we're on top, he wants to Luis, I'm going to be honest with you. You remember I had that That was last year.
FABIO: Luis, I'm going to be honest with you. You remember I had that That was last year.
DON LUIS: That was last year.
FABIO: Since then, I'm not a hundred percent. And you can't do this thing if you're not a hundred percent. I'm tired.
DON LUIS: So you'll take a rest.
FABIO: You know how many times we should have been dead?
DON LUIS: I don't even want to count.
FABIO: Neither do I. But you gotta think. How lucky we are to still be alive.
DON LUIS: Yeah. That's right. We're alive. And what about the future of this thing we built?
FABIO: It's yours. It's not my thing any I'm not going to talk you out of it, am I cabron?
DON LUIS: I'm not going to talk you out of it, am I cabron?
FABIO: I'll always be there for you Luis. Just pick up the phone, I'm there.
DON LUIS: I'm gonna hold you to that. You I'm going to miss you.
FABIO: And I'm going to miss you.
DON LUIS: OK. Enough of this sentimental bullshit. Next we'll be crying like two old women. Come on! One last drink, huh? He pours the liquor into the glasses.
DON LUIS: To the future.
FABIO: They shoot the liquor down. Fabio rises.
DON LUIS: So. Business is all clear?
FABIO: All clear. He hands Don Luis a computer disc.
FABIO: It's all here.
DON LUIS: No other copies?
FABIO: You even have to ask?
DON LUIS: He shrugs. Opens his arms. The two men embrace. Close as brothers.
FABIO: Adios Marco. Make sure he doesn't get in too much trouble.
MARCO: Adios Don Fabio. I'll do my best. And with that, Fabio exits the garden. Don Luis watches him, sad to see his friend go. Sighs deeply, pours himself a whiskey, downs it, turns to Marco.
DON LUIS: Kill this motherfucker.
FABIO: This fucker! The motherfucker! He keeps banging the dash.
DRIVER: Not OK Boss?
FABIO: This bastard thinks I'm an idiot. Playing it all mellow and shit. If he would have yelled and screamed and threatened to kill my whole family, it would have been OK. We have an hour to get out of here. At most. Off the nervous looks of the guys in the car.
MOTHER: We've got ten minutes.
FABIO: We've got ten minutes.
MOTHER: ( PANICKED )
CAT: I'm packed Mama. Cat is strangely calm, just sits at the table. Watches as Fabio takes the family picture off the wall, pries the frame back, extracts a small chip hidden inside the frame, comes over to Cat.
FABIO: Listen to me my darling. Just in case of anything. This. He holds the chip up.
FABIO: This is your passport. Do you She nods. He places the chip in her hand, takes a card out of his pocket.
FABIO: You find yourself alone? You go to the address on this card. Show it to the man at the front gate.
CAT: I don't understand papa.
FABIO: You don't have to understand. You just have to listen, and remember. As Cat looks at the chip.
MAN: ( polite. smiling ) Hola. We want to see Don Fabio.
BODYGUARD: He's not home.
MAN: You mind if we wait?
BODYGUARD: Your time.
FABIO: And this will keep you safe. Cat looks down at the medal.
FABIO: The Cataleya orchid. It comes from one place on Earth. Our place. My mother, your grandmother, used to grow them. Every morning I would wake up to the sight of them. The smell of them. That's why I named you after them. It reminds us of who we are.
MOTHER: I'm ready.
MAN: They said he's not home yet. He listens.
MAN: OK. OK. He hangs up. Puts his phone back in his pocket. Walks up to Fabio's men.
MAN: Change of plans. He pulls out his gun, shoots them point blank.
FABIO: He pushes his family back inside. Fabio runs to the window. Sees his men on the losing end of a gun battle. As the men fall, and others run up the stairs firing as they retreat toward the front door.
FABIO: Too late. Get ready! The Mother drops the suitcases and runs to the rear room. Fabio comes over to the unnaturally calm Cat.
FABIO: I love you very much.
CAT: I love you too Papa.
FABIO: His wife runs into the room toting two big assed assault rifles. She tosses one to Fabio. Both of them take up shooter's positions facing the door.
BBBBRRRRAAAAKKKKKK!!!!!!!!: Machine gun fire shatters the windows on both sides of the room, tearing into their bodies before they even get one shot off. Tearing the orchid plants there to shred. Cat watches in mute disbelief, shocked, as her parents bodies are riddled with heavy caliber rounds making them twitch and dance like marionettes on wires. Their blood splattering across the room, across her. And then. Silence. Silence so complete it is deafening in it's absence of any sound. Cat just sits in her chair. And then the door bursts open and four gunmen storm into the room, their assault weapons trained on the only living thing in the room. Cat. Marco enters.
MARCO: You in the kitchen. You, the bedroom. You, the back. The gunmen scatter. Marco has his inquisitive eye on Cat, who does not drop her eyes, impossible to read. One of the GUNMAN strides over to Cat, jams a gun to her head. Cat does not move a muscle. Does not blink.
MARCO: Hey! What are you doing? As the other gunmen begin to tear the house apart, looking for something, Marco strides over to Cat. The frame in his hand.
GUNMAN: Don Luis said kill everyone.
MARCO: He also said no names.
GUNMAN: She won't remember. He is about to pull the trigger.
MARCO: The gunman stops.
HEY!: The gunman stops.
MARCO: She's a kid.
GUNMAN: So what?
MARCO: What do you mean so what? You take a kid, teach them, they have The gunman takes his gun, lifts Cat's lip, looks at her I couldn't even get ten bucks for her in the street. The gunman is about to pull the trigger again.
GUNMAN: I couldn't even get ten bucks for her in the street. The gunman is about to pull the trigger again.
MARCO: Are you stupid or what? Here. Marco hands him some cash.
MARCO: Here's twenty asshole. Go do your Scowling, the gunman joins the others in ripping the house apart, looking for something. Marco calmly goes to the fridge, takes out two bottles of water, cracks the caps, sets one down on front of Cat as he sits opposite her. Her hands are in her lap.
MARCO: ( SOFTLY )
MARCO: I was at your confirmation. My name is Marco, and I was a very good friend of your father. I see he gave you his medal. Alluding to the medal around her neck.
MARCO: The Cataleya orchid. His symbol. Your name. That's good. This way you will always remember him.
MARCO: Some things are too complicated for a kid to understand. This is one of them. But I am going to try explain it and make it very simple for you. So you understand. Now, you know who Don Luis is? Cat responds, shakes her head yes. Her hand slips imperceptibly under the table.
MARCO: Of course you do. He was your father's best friend since they're kids. He's like an Uncle to you. You know he has always been good to your family, don't you? Again Cat shakes her head.
MARCO: This house, the food you eat, the clothes you wear. Even your school fees. All this comes from Don Luis. You know that? Again Cat shakes her head.
MARCO: But when someone is good to you and you are not good to them back, then bad things happen. Things He alludes to the riddled bodies of her dead parents.
MARCO: Cat looks from the bodies and back to Marco, no emotion in her eyes.
MARCO: I know you are a smart girl. You do well in school. So I know this is not too complicated for you to understand. Am I right? Cat nods.
MARCO: Good. Now, your father had something that belonged to Don Luis. A little thing. No bigger He holds up his thumbnail.
MARCO: This. Maybe it was in this. He holds up the frame, shows where the chip was dug out of the wood.
MARCO: Do you know what I am talking about? Cat nods.
MARCO: Excellent. Do you know where it Cat nods.
MARCO: Well, if you give it to me, Don Luis will be very grateful. And very generous. He will make sure that you are clothed, fed, and sent to the very best school. You will have everything you want.
MARCO: So why don't you just give that little thing which belongs to him. Will you do that? Cat hesitates for a moment, and then removes one hand from underneath the table, her fist closed tight. Marco smiles, kindly. He holds out his hand.
MARCO: You are a smart girl. Marco opens his hand.
MARCO: And in this life, smart girls get everything they want. What do you want Cat? And just as she is about to open her hand.
MARCO: Just tell me sweetheart.what do you want? In a flash, the knife is whipped out and buried into Marco's unsuspecting, open palm. Driven with such force, the knife pierces through the back of his hand, and sticks into the table beneath; pinning his hand. Marco wants to scream but there is so much pain, nothing escapes his throat.
CAT: ( in his ear ) To kill Don Luis!
MARCO: The men searching look up, and before they can react, Cat races past them.
AAARRRGGGHHHH!!!!!: The men searching look up, and before they can react, Cat races past them.
MARCO: Get her!
BBBBRRRRAAAAKKKKKKK!!!!!!: Lets loose with a barrage from his weapon.
ON CAT: She watches as the bullets split the cement all around her feet. Coming inches from ripping into them. And then the barrage stops.
ON CAT: She hears the pause. Looks out over the sprawl of houses that stretch up and down the steep hillsides of the favela. She looks down at her open palm at the small chip her father gave her. Pops the chip in her mouth, swallows, leaps over the small divide between her house and the next roof, and takes off running.
MARCO: We need her alive!
ON CAT: She drops down to another roof, this one filled with a vegetable patch, where an old man is gardening.
MARCO: Go! Go! He orders four more gunmen who have just zoomed up on motorcycles. The souped up rice rockets take off in four different directions.
ON CAT: As she comes off the last rooftop, down into a small alley. She sprints across to a small door. She kicks at the door, which gives way and enters.
ON CAT: She races down a steep hill in the crowded favela streets.
ON CAT: She runs down a steep alley, filled with people sitting outside their homes, chatting, playing dominoes. At the end of the alley, two motorcycles appear. The riders see Cat, as she sees them. They turn their bikes into the And bear down on Cat. Cat sprints back up the hill. She goes to escape into one of the open doors, but she finds that one after another the doors have closed shut, the people fled inside. The bikes eat up the hill. Cat's legs are no match for them. It seems she will be caught any second. She ducks down a street where laundry is hung on a concealed metal pipe running the length of the alley. As Cat ducks through the sheets the gunmen gun their bikes right towards her, tear through the sheets.
VRROOOM!: And bear down on Cat. Cat sprints back up the hill. She goes to escape into one of the open doors, but she finds that one after another the doors have closed shut, the people fled inside. The bikes eat up the hill. Cat's legs are no match for them. It seems she will be caught any second. She ducks down a street where laundry is hung on a concealed metal pipe running the length of the alley. As Cat ducks through the sheets the gunmen gun their bikes right towards her, tear through the sheets.
ON CAT: She looks back, to the dead gunmen, disappears over the AND JUST AS SHE DOES. Marco, in an open top jeep, with three of his gunmen ON BOARD, comes rolling up the road. He sees Cat.
MARCO: The jeep screeches around. Cat dashes down an alley.
ON CAT: As she runs up the alley with it's open sewers running on either side.
ON MARCO: The alley is too narrow for the jeep. The men spill out, spring up the alley.
MARCO: ON CAT
ON CAT: She runs up the alley, then ducks down another one. She comes to a ladder that leads up a fence, begins to climb.
ON MARCO: In the jeep, scouting as it rolls along.
ON CAT: She is running for all she is worth, out of breath, scared.
ANGLE ON: More thugs on bikes, on foot, in cars. They are everywhere.
ON CAT: She is leaning against a wall on a rooftop, gulping air, when she hears the roar of engines. Looks over the side of the building to see dozens of gunmen flooding the area.
ON GUNMEN: Climbing the ladder.
ON CAT: Hearing them coming.
ON GUNMEN: Surrounding a building. Throwing grappling hooks onto the roof ledge.
ON CAT: Seeing the grappling hooks claw onto the roof edge.
ON GUNMEN: Cresting the roof from the ladder.
ON GUNMEN: Rappelling up the side of the building on the grappling Flooding onto the roof from both sides. Coming to the spot where Cat was only moments before. To find no Cat.
ON GUNMEN: Flooding onto the roof from both sides. Coming to the spot where Cat was only moments before. To find no Cat.
ON MARCO: On the phone.
MARCO: North! Go North! We're cutting off the southern streets! Marco slams his phone shut. Heads for his car.
ON GUNMEN: The gunmen clear the roof. As the last one leaves, he takes one last suspicious sweep of the roof, cannot figure where this wisp of a girl went to. His eyes briefly focus on the chimney.
GUNMAN: The gunmen clear the roof. As the last one leaves, he takes one last suspicious sweep of the roof, cannot figure where this wisp of a girl went to. His eyes briefly focus on the chimney.
GUNMAN: Let's go. He clambers over the side of the roof.
MARCO: We got her! Close the net!
ON CAT: She sees Marco. She pauses for a moment, and then does something that stuns even Marco. She starts to run right towards the jeep!
ON MARCO: A bit stunned.
MARCO: What is she doing?
ON CAT: She keeps sprinting toward the jeep. Another jeep appears over the hill behind her. Starts to come at her.
ON MARCO: As his jeep speeds right for her.
ON CAT: As she runs, her eyes go to the right, and it becomes apparent she knows exactly what she is doing. She has a plan. And she executes it. Suddenly, she leaps for the curb and.
ON MARCO: Sees Cat dive to the curb.
MARCO: ON CAT ON MARCO
ON CAT: As she wriggles her skinny little body down the grate, with barely enough room to squeeze in. But in she does In total disbelief, watching her disappear down the narrow slit in the curb. Both jeeps pull up. The men jump out. Marco flattens to the street, peers into the grate, sees Cat staring up at Marco takes his gun out. Jams it in the grate.
ON MARCO: In total disbelief, watching her disappear down the narrow slit in the curb. Both jeeps pull up. The men jump out. Marco flattens to the street, peers into the grate, sees Cat staring up at Marco takes his gun out. Jams it in the grate.
BAMBAMBAMBAMBAM!!!!: Empties his clip into the dark. When he runs out of ammo, he peers down again. Cat is gone. The gunmen run to the next sewer grate fire into that one. Marco looks down, no Cat.
MARCO: Get down there! The gunmen rip the grate out, jump down the hole.
GUNMAN: ( ON PHONE )
ON MARCO: FUCK! FUCK! He kicks every car in the street in frustration.
MARCO: FUCK! FUCK! He kicks every car in the street in frustration.
FUCK! FUCK!: He kicks every car in the street in frustration.
ANGLE ON: A small crevice in the sewer wall. Cat has squeezed herself into the crack, almost invisible.
VOICE: Excuse me.
AMERICAN 1: And you say you have something for He turns to Cat, who nods yes.
AMERICAN 1: May I see it? Cat takes a beat. Puts her fingers down her throat. And throws up all over the man's desk.
AMERICAN 1: Oh jeez. Cat reaches into the goop on the desk and comes up with the chip. She hands it over to the man behind the desk, who takes a handkerchief out and takes it from her, gingerly. He looks at the chip, looks at Cat.
AMERICAN 1: ( REPULSED )
AMERICAN 1: We have to record this. Cat does not understand. The second American hits a button on a remote.
BACK ON: AMERICAN 1
AMERICAN 1: Where did you get this?
CAT: My Papa.
AMERICAN 1: And where is your Papa?
CAT: AMERICAN 1
AMERICAN 1: Did he tell you what this is?
CAT: Yes.my passport.
VOICE: We are making our final approach to Miami International airport. Please fasten your seat belts. She looks down at the medal around her neck. A tear forms in her eye. Rolls down her cheek. Impossible to tell if it is a tear of joy or sadness.
MAN: Come with me. He walks to the right.
BUREAUCRAT: She's the one?
MAN: She is indeed. The Bureaucrat looks at her passport. As Cat glimpses through the slatted window looking out over the Customs floor, where all the other passengers are being processed in long lines.
BUREAUCRAT: You must have done something pretty important to get the royal treatment little lady. Cat says nothing. He stamps her passport.
BUREAUCRAT: Welcome to America. Cat looks at him, not sure if this is good news or bad ON THE MIAMI SKYLINE INT. CAR - DAY Cat looks out the window of the car at the skyline passing by, silent, filled with wonder.
MAN: You like music? Cat looks at him, doesn't respond. He turns the radio on. A god awful C&W song comes on. Cat looks at him for a moment, then reaches over, turns the radio off. Goes back to looking out the window.
VOICE: It's been our mission statement since we first opened our doors in nineteen twenty three.
HEADMISSTRESS: To provide a safe, healthy nurturing environment where young women can get the education they will need to meet the challenges of that amazing adventure called life. How does that sound to you, my Cat does not respond, she just stares out the window.
MAN: It's been a long day for her. Here's the check for the year's He hands over a check.
MAN: And the five hundred dollars allowance for the first six months. He hands over a wad of bills.
HEADMISSTRESS: Which we keep right here. She places the money in an envelope with Cat's name on it, and puts the envelope into a drawer.
HEADMISSTRESS: And give you twenty a week for She hands a twenty to Cat. Who takes it without saying a What do we say darling?
HEADMISSTRESS: What do we say darling?
CAT: Where do I sleep?
MONITOR: Girls, this is your new classmate. Please welcome her and show her the ropes.
SHERRI: I'm Sherri. And you are?
CAT: Very tired. The girls all around twitter. Sherri looks back at them, no good rising on her smirking face.
SHERRI: Well, 'very tired', I'm sure you want to lay down and rest your little head?
CAT: I do.
SHERRI: There's your bed. She points halfway down the aisle to an empty bed. Cat is about to walk towards it, when Sherri puts a beefy hand in her chest.
CAT: But it's gonna cost you.
SHERRI: A week. Peace has it's price, y'know what I'm saying? Cat says nothing, just stares at Sherri.
SHERRI: Are we clear on that?
CAT: Twenty dollars a week. Sherri opens her sweatshirt to reveal a fanny pack. She unzips it, puts Cat's twenty in with a wad of other We got a smart one! The other girls hoot and whistle. Sherri removes her hand from Cat's chest.
SHERRI: We got a smart one! The other girls hoot and whistle. Sherri removes her hand from Cat's chest.
SHERRI: You can go now.
FADE TO: INT. DORMITORY - NIGHT All the girls are asleep in their beds. Silence reigns, except for the small cries and sighs of girls asleep.
CLOSE ON: A kind faced Hispanic woman, a.
TICKET AGENT: Hola chica, where are we wanting to go today?
TICKET AGENT: Chicago is not next door, you know.
CAT: How much? Cat holds up the envelope from the headmistresses office.
MONTAGE: Cat walks across the neighborhoods of Chicago. Sees the signs in Polish change into signs in Italian, in Spanish, Chinese, Ethiopian. She hands her paper to an Ethiopian cabbie. He points her She walks past bars where black gangbangers watch her pass. She hands one her paper, he points her on. She walks past massive churches, synagogues, mosques. She walks past the stately houses of the Gold Coast, along the deserted stretches of the glam shops on Michigan Avenue, over the bridges. Until she comes to.
MAN: Hey kid. You know what time it Cat shakes her head.
MAN: It's late, and this is not the kind of place a kid should be hanging out. What are you doing Cat hands him her paper. He looks at her, suspicious.
MAN: Who are you?
CAT: The man takes a moment.
MAN: Wait here. He disappears up a small alley into the darkness beyond. Cat, not knowing what to do, sits down on the curb, watches street life. She sees. Hookers soliciting men in passing cars. Cops sitting in a patrol car, bored, blase. Men playing craps against a wall. Some very discreet dope deals, more sleight of hand than anything else.
MAN: The beating stops, Emilio turns.
MAN: There's a girl looking for you.
EMILIO: I'm not interested in a girl right He turns back to the task at hand. Cocks his fist.
MAN: It's not that sort of thing. She's Again, Emilio stops. The man hands her Cat's paper.
MAN: Says her name's Cataleya. This focuses Emilio's attention.
MAN: Come with me. He turns abruptly, heads back up the alley.
MAN: Cat's attention is drawn away from the room with the guns, to the Man holding a door open for her at the very end of the hall.
EMILIO: Now it is Cat who hesitates.
CAT: Uncle Emilio? Emilio covers his mouth, seems rocked.
EMILIO: Madonna! I thought you were dead! He crosses himself.
EMILIO: I thought you were all. Cat stands stock still. Emilio takes her up in his arms, lifts her, crushes her to his chest. Cat remains suspended, emotionless for a moment. And then, for the first time emotion, real emotion, washes across her face. Her lower lip begins to tremble. Tears well up in her eyes. She bursts into tears.
EMILIO: You're safe now. All the emotion, the fear, the anger that she has kept locked away deep inside, rushes to the surface in one massive wave.
EMILIO: You're safe.
CLOSE ON: One beam of sunlight slips through the narrow crack between a window and the shade covering it.
CLOSE ON: The ray of sunlight washes across Cat's sleeping face. She wakes slowly. Her eyes open after a long sleep. For a moment she does not remember where she is.
EMILIO: Gracias mama. A noise turns both of them to the doorway and Cat.
EMILIO: Good morning.
MAMA: Buenos diaz Cara. Come. Sit. I'll make you some eggs. Mama caresses her face, her eyes glisten with a grandmother's love. Kisses her on the forehead, lovingly, whispers into her ear.
MAMA: You have your mother's beautiful eyes. Don't be scared. This is your home. Slowly, hesitantly, Cat makes her way across the kitchen to the table, where she sits opposite Emilio, tentative.
EMILIO: When was the last time you slept?
CAT: I don't know. A long time ago.
EMILIO: Well good. A growing body needs sleep. When I was your age I would sleep half the day. I don't know if it helped with the growing, but I was well rested for whatever came after.
CAT: Whose room is that?
EMILIO: My son. Your cousin.
CAT: Where is he?
EMILIO: He's dead. His voice holds anger, not sadness.
CAT: By who?
EMILIO: By who?
CAT: By who?
EMILIO: No one who is still alive. Mama comes over, puts a plate of eggs in front of her. As she begins to wolf down the food. He holds up the page of her drawing, the one her Father put his address on.
EMILIO: You are very talented. Is this what you want to be? An artist?
CAT: I used to want to be like Lara. A super agent. Shoveling more food into her mouth.
EMILIO: Not anymore? Chewing, Cat shakes her head.
EMILIO: And now?
CAT: ( matter of fact ) I want to be a killer. She keeps shoveling food in her mouth. Emilio looks up at his mother, who crosses herself. Cat finishes the last mouthful, looks up.
CAT: Can you help? Emilio blinks once.
EMILIO: EXT. STREET - DAY Emilio walks Cat down the street. He is carrying a kids book bag.
EMILIO: The good news is your father bought you your life with what he gave you. The bad news is Don Luis was playing both sides, and has disappeared. You tore down everything he spent years building up with that little chip. It is something he will not forget. There is a law in this thing of ours. If someone does you, the revenge goes all the way down the line. Women, children, Grandmothers, dogs, cats. No Are you trying to scare me?
CAT: Are you trying to scare me?
EMILIO: I am trying to educate you.
PRINCIPAL: Normally we don't accept students in the middle of the academic year, but under the circumstances, losing her parents in that tragic car Cat looks out the window, saying nothing.
PRINCIPAL: He hands a list over to Cat. Who keeps looking out the Emilio takes them.
PRINCIPAL: These are the school supplies you'll Emilio takes them.
EMILIO: She's still in a bit of shock.
PRINCIPAL: Of course. See you Monday Cataleya. Such a pretty name. She keeps looking out the window.
EMILIO: We'll get all this stuff, then go over to this little place I know down on Maxwell street for some of these hot dogs the Polish people make here. He turns left at the cross street.
EMILIO: You like hot dogs? He looks down, sees no Cat. Looks back to see Cat walking in the opposite direction.
EMILIO: Cat keeps going.
EMILIO: He hurries, catches up with her.
EMILIO: Where you going?
CAT: I've already been to school. I told you what I want to be. You don't want to help me, fine. I'll do it myself. She walks off. Emilio grabs her.
EMILIO: Chica. Any idiot can be a killer. Emilio draws a .357 magnum pistol from his shoulder holster, and empties the entire clip into the front of a car coming down the street. The car careens off the road, smashes a fire hydrant, crashes through a plate glass window of a shop across the street. The water from the hydrant shoot twenty feet in the air. Emilio holsters his gun.
EMILIO: You want me to teach you to be a killer? No problema. I'll teach you. But you'll be dead in five If you want to be a killer, and survive, you have to be a smart one. You have to know things besides how to pull a trigger. You have to know how the world works. How people think. You got to learn to be psychological. That I cannot teach you, unless you learn the basics at school. Got it? Cat glares at him.
EMILIO: Now what's it going to be? He holds out the gun in one hand, and the schoolbag in the other. Cat hesitates for a moment. Takes the schoolbag from Emilio. Then takes his hand, and they walk off together as police sirens announce the arrival of cruisers, and people pour out of the school and the surrounding stores. As they put distance between the chaos and But I still want to be a killer.
CAT: But I still want to be a killer.
EMILIO: ( SIGHING ) 12 YEARS LATER
COP 1: So then I suggest, y'know, we buy some things to spice it up a bit.
COP 2: Define things.
COP 1: A garter belt, some of those stockings that come up the thigh.it's fourteen years. Know what I mean? The lights come closer.
COP 2: Yeah. No matter how much you like steak, sometime a lamb chop is not a bad thing. The lights shine right into the car.
COP 1: Only then, when the lights are directly on them, do the cops turn to see a car heading right toward their front
COP 1: What the.
CRASH!!!!: The front end of the cop car gets sheared right off by the impact. Glass shatters, metal crunches, airbags explode!
ANGLE ON: The other car. The drivers door opens. A vodka bottle falls out, clinks to the sidewalk. And a moment later, two legs emerge from the car. Two very long, very shapely legs. Legs that never end. In very high heels, and a very short mini skirt. And the face on top of it, framed by a mane of wild hair, is drop dead think-you-have-died- and-gone-to-heaven gorgeous. The whole package reads SUPERMODEL. And by the way she is weaving when she stands, and the bottle at her feet, the read is; very drunk supermodel. Who looks at the crumpled police cruiser, looks into the windshield of the cruiser at the stunned cops, and says in the most sweetly drunk voice.
SUPERMODEL: The cops can't believe this. They regain their wits and bolt out of the car.
COP 1: That's all you have to say? Oops? And, ever so sensually, she starts to laugh. The cops look at each other, perplexed. And she keeps laughing.
COP 1: .and she keeps laughing.
COP 1: Wanna laugh you crazy bitch? I'll give you something to laugh about! And even when they slam her to the hood of the car, jam her hands behind her back, and slap the cuffs on, she keeps laughing, and laughing.
SERGEANT: No license, no registration. No ID except a library card. Well He reads off the library card.
SERGEANT: Valarie Phillips in addition to all that.you're being charged here with DUI, destruction of police property, driving the wrong way on a two way street.
CAT: Is that it?
SERGEANT: Unless you can think of anything else you should be charged with.
CAT: ( TIPSY )
SERGEANT: That's not a crime.
CAT: Thank goodness. And she teeters over, passes out cold right on the Sergeant's desk.
SERGEANT: Take her in the back, lock her up, put a cup of coffee in with her. Let her sleep it off, we'll book her tomorrow. The two cops who booked her drag her out. As they do, the Sergeant and the two other cops on duty lean over to try and get a look up her very long legs and her very short EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT Three black SUV's, with blacked out windows, come rolling up to the station. The doors open and a dozen U.S. MARSHALS jump out. Vigilant, forming a cordon around one of the vehicles, out of which comes a hand cuffed, kevlar wearing hard as nails MAFIA type. GENNARO RIZZO. The Marshal's surround him, guns bristling, on the look out for any danger, and hustle him towards the doors of the police station.
MARSHAL: US Marshal Warren. We have Gennaro Rizzo here on an overnight.
SERGEANT: Rizzo. The Mafia guy? On the way to testify up in San Francisco tomorrow? They didn't notify you?
MARSHAL: Rizzo. The Mafia guy? On the way to testify up in San Francisco tomorrow? They didn't notify you?
SERGEANT: Hold on a second. He rifles through some papers. Finds one.
SERGEANT: Here we go. Says here you're not expected until tomorrow.
MARSHAL: Never expect the expected Sergeant. ( to his men ) Secure this place.
MARSHAL: One man here. Two more outside the front door. Everyone else on the perimeter, in teams of two. He hands out thermos bottles.
MARSHAL: It's a caffeine kinda night fellas. Eyes open.
ON CAT: Cat's eyes snap open. She sits up, moves with the efficiency and determination of someone who has not has a drop of alcohol. She takes a spoon from the coffee cup left for her, reaches into her mane of hair and extracts a small pin. She inserts the pin into the keyhole of the door, jiggles it. The door pops open. Cat exits the cell, takes a broom leaning in the corner, and keeping her eye on the camera above the door, she slides along the wall, until she is just under the camera. She uses the broom handle to tilt the camera up just a bit.
CLOSE ON: The last drop of water drips into the spoon, the spoon tips, tugging on the wire, the wire trips the switch it is connected to, the whole device comes apart, the separate pieces fall to the floor.
SERGEANT: Hey Doyle! He calls to one of the other cops on duty.
SERGEANT: Go take a look at the breaker on the ventilation system, will ya? Doyle moves off.
MARSHAL: ( OVER INTERCOM )
CAT: Unbutton your shirt.
RIZZO: Rizzo looks over to where the Marshal is passed out cold on the floor. He does as he is told.
CAT: Rizzo looks over to where the Marshal is passed out cold on the floor. He does as he is told.
RIZZO: Who the hell are you?
CAT: Not room service. She pumps four bullets into his head.
BAMBAMBAMBAM!!!: The four shots reverberate throughout the station.
BAMBAMBAMBAM!!!!: Two patrols of two Marshal's each hear the shots.
BAMBAMBAMBAM!!!: The monitor wakes up.
COPS: Drop it!! The Marshal is frozen, totally confused.
MARSHAL: Drop it, Joe!!!!! More guns. More confusion. Tension beyond the moon.
MARSHAL: I didn't do it!
COPS: Drop it!!!! The Marshal drops his gun.
COPS: On the floor!
MARSHAL: Call a bus!
MARSHAL: Guys! I didn't do it!!!
MARSHAL 1: Ambulance on the way! Another Marshal is checking Rizzo.
MARSHAL: He's gone.
SERGEANT: Search the place!
ABOVE HER: The cops look around the roof.
ON CAT: She holds there listening to the noise above. Hears noise below, looks down to see.
ON CAT: Hanging to the edge of the building. Listening, watching.
ON CAT: When one hand has a firm grasp on the roof ledge, she lets go with the other hand and grasps the ledge, extracts the blades from the brick seams, and swings herself up on the roof. As her shoes dislodge, some mortar comes loose and falls below.
CORONER: What the fuck?
HIS POV: On Rizzo's chest the word TRAITOR is written in thick black letters. And above them, a drawing of the Cataleya orchid. The Marshal's knows what this is.
MARSHAL: Holy shit! Call Ross.
MARSHAL: Agent Ross?
ROSS: Where is he?
MARSHAL: At the hospital.
ROSS: Let's go.
CAT: I shouldn't drink.
SERGEANT: No you shouldn't.
CAT: I'm so so sorry.
SERGEANT: Tell it to the judge at your hearing in ten days.
CAT: What's going on out there? Alluding to all the commotion she sees through the window looking out into the main room.
SERGEANT: Nothing. Fill out the forms and you can go.
CAT: Really. We need to get things organized. But don't worry, the judge will send you back, for sure.
SERGEANT: Really. We need to get things organized. But don't worry, the judge will send you back, for sure.
CAT: I probably deserve it. He hands her a sheaf of papers and a pen. As the pen hits the paper.
ROSS: Same handwriting. Same flower. It's him. Let's see the location.
SERGEANT: You're lucky no one was hurt.
CAT: I would have never forgiven myself. Keeping her back to the security camera overhead, Cat collects her things and exits. As the door closes.
REPORTERS: Is it Rizzo? Was it an assassination? Are there any clues? Is it true a Marshal did it?
ROSS: No comment. Ross sees cops coming and going from the station. He turns to the Marshal with him.
ROSS: You didn't lock it down?
MARSHAL: It was after the fact. I didn't Ross cannot believe what he is hearing.
ROSS: Do it. Now. No one in or out.
MARSHAL: OK! That's it. No one in or out! Lock down! Cat just keeps walking, right past Ross, who heads into the station as the cops try to keep the reporters at bay.
ROSS: I want to see paper on everyone in and out of the station in the last twenty four hours. He looks up to the end of the hall.
ROSS: And I want the tapes from the security cameras.
EMILIO: Are we good?
CAT: We're good.
EMILIO: When are you back?
CAT: Day after.
EMILIO: I have something.
CAT: The morning after OK?
EMILIO: Can't wait to see you Cara.
CAT: Say hello to Mama. He looks over to Mama at the stove, who waves over her Mama says hello back. He hangs up, goes back to his game.
EMILIO: Mama says hello back. He hangs up, goes back to his game.
ROSS: He tilted the camera just enough so the angle would catch the guard, not who was holding him. He turns to his team.
ROSS: Twenty two murders in four years all with the same M.O. The word, the flower. He's sending a message, for sure. And I'm beginning to think it's not to us.
AGENT 1: But we're the only ones with the And we're not getting anywhere with it, are we? No one on the team can dispute this. It occurs to Ross.
ROSS: And we're not getting anywhere with it, are we? No one on the team can dispute this. It occurs to Ross.
ROSS: If the message is not for us, let's make sure the one it's intended for gets it. I want you to put it out to the press. Splash it across every newspaper, every magazine. National. I want eyeballs on it coast to coast. Monitor it. Let's see if anything comes back.
MARCO: Mr. Richard. Richard looks up to a fifteen year older Marco.
MARCO: Been a long time.
RICHARD: Yes it has Marco. How's the hand? Marco holds up his scarred hand.
MARCO: Only hurts when it's humid.
RICHARD: Should've let us relocate you to Arizona instead of New Orleans.
MARCO: The Boss likes it humid.
RICHARD: There it is then.
MARCO: He's waiting for you. Richard enters. The door closes.
RICHARD: Hello Luis.
DON LUIS: Hello Mr. Richard.
RICHARD: I brought you the morning paper. He holds the paper up.
DON LUIS: I've seen it.
RICHARD: DON LUIS
DON LUIS: Coincidence? Twenty two times? A flower that only grows in one place on earth? That used to be the calling card of.what was his name? Your former partner? The one who did your wet work?
RICHARD: Coincidence? Twenty two times? A flower that only grows in one place on earth? That used to be the calling card of.what was his name? Your former partner? The one who did your wet work?
DON LUIS: Fabio. Fabio Maria Restrepo. But I don't understand? Why come here with this?
RICHARD: Because when we find the end of a string we like to know where it String? Now we are talking about string? I'm not a tailor.
DON LUIS: String? Now we are talking about string? I'm not a tailor.
RICHARD: Don Luis. Let's cut to the chase here, OK? When the Agency extracted your ass from Colombia fifteen years ago, and set you up here, we let you resume your business when what we should have done was lock you up for life. In exchange, you were supposed to keep the information flowing.
DON LUIS: And I have.
RICHARD: Not much, and not for a very long And this is what you traveled all the way down here to tell me?
DON LUIS: And this is what you traveled all the way down here to tell me?
RICHARD: No. What I traveled all the way down here to tell you, is there's a limit to our patience. The CIA is not an amusement park. There are no free rides. Everyone pays their way. And you, my friend, have not.
DON LUIS: OK OK. What would you want? He slaps the newspaper down with the picture of Rizzo.
DON LUIS: I had nothing to do with this. I Then find out who does. As he goes to leave.
RICHARD: Then find out who does. As he goes to leave.
RICHARD: And Don Luis, don't play the innocent with us. It won't sit well with my bosses if we find out you had anything to do with this. Have a good day. Richard exits.
DON LUIS: She's talking to us.
MARCO: It could be anyone. Don Luis reaches out, fast as a Cobra, grabbing Marco by the lapel, pulling him close.
DON LUIS: Idiot! I told you. Everyone dead. Down to the dog.
IN CUTS: Cat sashays across the open space, a stripper strutting her stuff; shedding, first her blouse, then her jeans, her lingerie, until, by the time she reaches a free standing opaque cylinder of a shower with an opaque shower curtain, she is completely nude. She enters the shower. Turns on the water. Like a snake shedding a skin, she lets the water divest her of everything that came before.
ROSS: Rizzo here. He points to Rizzo on the wall.
ROSS: The most recent, was done to keep him from talking. Alexa Points to a gorgeous dead woman with the word GRIFTER on her stomach.
ROSS: .made a career of getting intimate with big stakes gamblers out of Vegas and then taking them off and sending them to meet their maker. D'Angelo James. Points to a huge black man with USURPER written in white letters across his chest.
ROSS: .tried to take over the heroin trade in Houston from. He points to two Mexicans, identical twins, one with PAY written on his chest, the other with the word BACK.
ROSS: The Gemini cartel. Their crimes are self explanatory, if you can read. Now I know some of you are thinking whoever is doing this makes less work for mother. And since there's no collateral damage, why are we wasting valuable manpower and resources on the case? And since until now, there has never been a clue to go on, why go on? But with this last killing. He holds up a stack of folders from his desk.
ROSS: We have one. As we go to the video He hits a button and the video replay of Cat walking the unconscious guard through the door.
ROSS: We can't see the assassin, but we can see. He freezes the tape. Points to the time mark on the tape.
ROSS: The time. 2 AM. Which means our perp was in the station at.I don't have to spell it out for He begins to hand the folders out.
ROSS: These are the names, phone numbers and addresses of everyone with a pulse who entered that police station before two AM. Cops, criminals, clerks, janitors. Everyone. One of them is our target. I want each of you to locate the ten people in the folder you've been given. I want a complete dossier on every one of them for the last ten years of their lives. Run down every lead. Check out every story. Our killer is out there. And we're going to find him. Before he kills again.
VOICE: Don't move. Danny's hand freezes. He stands very still.
VOICE: Take off your shirt.
DANNY: Do I have to?
VOICE: Danny complies.
VOICE: Turn around. He does. To darkness. And then, a match is struck, a candle is lit. Standing before him, in garters, thigh highs, a very sexy bra, and fuck me pumps is.
CAT: Hello Danny.
DANNY: Hello Jennifer. Cat closes to an inch of him.
DANNY: You should have called.
CAT: I could have been out.
DANNY: I could have been out.
CAT: I have a key.
DANNY: I could have been late. She begins to kiss him, lightly around the mouth.
CAT: I've got nowhere to go.
DANNY: It's just.
CAT: Just what? She keeps kissing him, lightly on the neck.
DANNY: You show up whenever you want to.
CAT: And then we have the most incredible I know. I'm just saying. He fumbles for the words.
DANNY: I know. I'm just saying. He fumbles for the words.
DANNY: Wouldn't you like to go to dinner She keeps nibbling.
CAT: Uh-uh. This taste good enough.
DANNY: Or a movie? Licking him.
CAT: No. They put me to sleep.
DANNY: So let's pop in a DVD and you can spend the night here? She stops. Looks him in the eye.
CAT: Would you like the key back?
DANNY: No. I just want to get.I don't She resumes nibbling on his neck.
CAT: She resumes nibbling on his neck.
DANNY: Yes. Closer. She runs her nails down his chest, slowly, teasing. Her hand finds his groin. What she finds makes her smile.
CAT: Is this close enough?
DANNY: ( SMILES )
FADE TO: INT. DANNY'S APARTMENT - DAWN Danny wakes. His face holds the smile of the memory of the night before. He turns his head, lazily. The pillow beside him is empty.
DANNY: Cat is gone. Danny's smile fades.
EMILIO: And then we see he is talking to.
CAT: On my end. You?
EMILIO: What do we have? Emilio takes a manila envelope out of the bag. Places it on the seat next to him. Cat picks it up, looks through You remember the guy who was in the news for running that Ponzi scheme about a year ago?
CAT: What do we have? Emilio takes a manila envelope out of the bag. Places it on the seat next to him. Cat picks it up, looks through You remember the guy who was in the news for running that Ponzi scheme about a year ago?
EMILIO: You remember the guy who was in the news for running that Ponzi scheme about a year ago?
EMILIO: He disappeared fifty billion dollars. The money was never recovered. Skipped out and bought himself citizenship on some shit hole of a Caribbean island that calls itself a country with no extradition laws. Lot of very pissed off people lost everything. Cat goes to get up.
EMILIO: There's something else. He slaps the newspaper down with Rizzo's picture on the front page.
EMILIO: How long has this been going on?
CAT: ( BLUFFING )
EMILIO: The paper says twenty two. All like this. Tell me why.
CAT: No reason.
EMILIO: Since you're a kid, you don't do anything for no reason. Don't play dumb, it insults me.
CAT: I've got to get ready. As she goes to rise, Emilio grabs her hand.
EMILIO: It's not just you in this. It's me, Mama.
CAT: Tio. You're removed. You book the work, you collect the fees.
EMILIO: I watch your ass. Each and every job, I vet, I double vet. For every one I book you, I turn down five, ten. I promised to keep you safe. I KEEP YOU SAFE. Cataleya. It's a full time job, no matter what you think. Those pictures.they freaked me out. OK? I didn't realize.
CAT: I come to you at nine. I say I want to be a killer. What kind of kid makes a career choice like that unless they have something on their mind.
EMILIO: Sure. Of course. But the way you're playing it. They even have a name for you. The Tag killer. I would have stopped it a long time ago. Had I known about this.
CAT: Because I love you. Cat smiles. A smile that could melt ice in winter. But a knowing smile. A 'Don't bullshit a bullshitter' smile.
EMILIO: Because I love you. Cat smiles. A smile that could melt ice in winter. But a knowing smile. A 'Don't bullshit a bullshitter' smile.
CAT: If you do, you would never have let me get involved in the first The truth of her words deprive him of his. She kisses him him on the forehead.
CAT: I love you too. And she exits, leaving Emilio more concerned. He looks down at the picture.
ROSS: OK. Let's try.organization. He types. Data comes up. And what he sees stuns him. A folder marked CIA: CONFIDENTAL. ACCESS DENIED.
ROSS: ( FRUSTRATED )
CAT: Hi guys. And the dogs jump all over her, licking her.
CAT: Hey! Hey! She pets them, plays with them.
CAT: OK. OK. Now sit.
CAT: Now let's see what good boys you can be. She reaches into one of the shopping bags, pulls out two Top cut sirloin. Which she puts down on the ground. The dog's eyes go to the chunks of meat.
CAT: Top cut sirloin. Which she puts down on the ground. The dog's eyes go to the chunks of meat.
CAT: Nice, huh? The dogs can barely contain themselves.
CAT: Red, juicy, delicious. The dogs whimper in anticipation.
CAT: She picks up the shopping bags, and heads for the ramshackle warehouse. The dogs moan, but do not move, their eyes going from the meat to Cat. Cat reaches the door. Turns. Sees the dogs looking at
CAT: Good boys.
PEPE: Hola Cataleya.
CAT: Hola Pepe. I guess the boys gave me away.
PEPE: Anyone else? The barking would only have stopped when their screaming began. You spoil them.
CAT: I train them.
PEPE: If that's what you want to call Cat kisses Pepe, taps one of the chimes, it makes the most ethereal sound as one chime bangs against the other. She opens a cupboard in the makeshift kitchen area, and starts unpacking the groceries.
PEPE: Did you get the beans I like?
CAT: Of course.
PEPE: And the salsa Verde?
CAT: And the salsa Verde.
PEPE: Not the one in the short bottle.
CAT: The long one.
PEPE: I hate that other one, the chili they use sucks. Did you see your Of course. She moves from the kitchen, walks across to the far wall.
CAT: Of course. She moves from the kitchen, walks across to the far wall.
PEPE: We're going to church for Easter.
CAT: As always.
PEPE: And you?
CAT: Not this year. Until she reaches a big discarded safe, taller than her, with an impregnable door.
PEPE: As always. You should, you know.
CAT: I should do a lot of things. She turns the combination knob.
PEPE: You could start with that one. It would make us very happy.
CAT: Maybe next year. The door opens, reveals shelves with dozens of passports, stacks of cash.
PEPE: Cataleya. No one knows what happens tomorrow, next year is a long time away. How was your trip? Cat starts to remove some of the cash. Starts to count it. Stick it in her pocket.
CAT: She takes a passport out.
PEPE: Your ears are better than my eyes.
CAT: Your ears are better than my eyes.
PEPE: You work too much. I keep telling that to Emilio. The girl should have a life while she is still young enough to enjoy it. You should take a vacation. Go some place warm. With a nice beach.
CAT: Good idea. She slams the big safe door shut.
WILLIAM: PULL BACK TO EXT. COMPOUND - DAY An exquisite villa surrounded by a high wall. As the girls clamber out of the pool, ignoring the four armed body guards patrolling poolside, they are met by three maids holding robes for them to slip into.
GRRRAAAHHHH!!!!: PULL BACK TO EXT. COMPOUND - DAY An exquisite villa surrounded by a high wall. As the girls clamber out of the pool, ignoring the four armed body guards patrolling poolside, they are met by three maids holding robes for them to slip into.
WILLIAM: ( SMILING )
WILLIAM: That's better.
GIRL: Willie you are such a perv.
WILLIAM: I know. Anyone hungry?
GIRL: As William slips into a robe held open for him, he grabs the asses of two of the girls.
WILLIAM: Lunch is served. Giggling, the girls scamper toward the villa, where a sumptuous table is set on the veranda, attended by more servants. William is handed a drink, as he sips it, watches their perfect, barely covered butts, his eyes pools of desire, the servant holds out an envelope.
SERVANT: For you sir.
WILLIAM: Where did this come from?
SERVANT: It was in the post box this morning. William cannot fathom what this is all about. But he does not like it.
ANGLE ON: The third girl is out in the foyer, laying on the glass floor, which is the top of a large aquarium, where dozens of sharks swim back and forth.
GIRL: Here fishy fishy! She taps on the floor, the sharks ignore her.
GIRL: ( POUTY )
WILLIAM: Put a drop of blood in there and they'll be your biggest admirers. All the way down to your stripped clean bones. And speaking of He lifts her up like a piece of luggage. As she squeals with delight.
WILLIAM: The other girls come running. The party moves up the winding staircase. The bodyguards look at each other, roll their eyes.
WILLIAM: ( to head of security ) Bring extra security in for the Yes sir.
HEAD SECURITY: Yes sir.
WILLIAM: And make sure we're shut down tight.
HEAD SECURITY: Yes sir. Have a good night, sir.
WILLIAM: I intend to. The doors close, and lock. Wild shrieks come from inside.
HEAD SECURITY: There are already guys in the garden and guys out back. I want you three upstairs, two on the roof. You three downstairs. Follow me. As they all enter the villa, the CAMERA lingers on the van. A figure dressed in black rolls out from under the carriage as it pulls away and disappears into the bushes.
WILLIAM: No answer. William tip toes to the ajar door. He peeks out and sees two guards with bullets through their foreheads, blood leaked out across the white marble floor. Really panicked, he flattens himself against the inside of the door, his breath coming in gasps.
WILLIAM: No answer. He crosses the aquarium floor, and when he is right in the middle.
CAT: Stop right there. Cat comes out of the dark. In her hand, a silencer fitted Who are you?
WILLIAM: Who are you?
CAT: Doesn't matter who I am. He pulls the trigger on his gun. Click, click, click. He tries the other one. Again click click click.
WILLIAM: What do you want?
CAT: I want you exactly where you are. And then, without warning, she puts a bullet in both his He falls to the floor. The blood starts to seep out onto the glass. The sharks swim back and forth.
WILLIAM: He falls to the floor. The blood starts to seep out onto the glass. The sharks swim back and forth.
ARRRGGGHHHH!: He falls to the floor. The blood starts to seep out onto the glass. The sharks swim back and forth.
WILLIAM: Whatever they paid you, I'll double You know the thing about sharks. You can swim with them all day and they will just ignore you, but put one drop of blood in the water and they become your biggest admirers.
CAT: You know the thing about sharks. You can swim with them all day and they will just ignore you, but put one drop of blood in the water and they become your biggest admirers.
WILLIAM: Please. I'll give you anything you want. Don't kill me!
CAT: I'm not going to kill you.
WILLIAM: Please! Please! He struggles frantically to pull himself out. Cat exits. And then the sharks hit. WHAM! And hit. And hit. And Please! Help! Help! He is violently dragged under.
WILLIAM: Please! Help! Help! He is violently dragged under.
CLOSE ON: The front page of a newspaper with a picture of the remains of William under the headline: SHARKS EAT SHARK. The newspaper drops to reveal Richard at his desk.
RICHARD: I can't believe this. He drops the paper, is about to leave his office when the phone on his desk rings. He answers.
RICHARD: Mr. Steven Richard?
VOICE: Mr. Steven Richard?
RICHARD: Who is this?
CLOSE ON: FBI special agent Jack Ross. I'm lead agent on a case. A serial killer we call the tag killer.
ROSS: FBI special agent Jack Ross. I'm lead agent on a case. A serial killer we call the tag killer.
INTERCUT: Hiding his anger.
RICHARD: I've seen the publicity.
ROSS: Marks his victims with a flower. From Colombia. A Cataleya orchid.
RICHARD: Listen, Agent Ross, we don't give out any type of information over the phone. So what I suggest is you file a formal request with the agency for any information you might want. And I'll be more than happy to get back to you as soon as I can. He hangs up. Seething.
ON ROSS: Looking at his phone and the dial tone emittting from the
ROSS: Thank you.
MARCO: INT. CAR - DAY A pissed off Richard is on the phone.
RICHARD: No more bullshitting me Marco. I've got the FBI on my ass now. I want that problem taken care of. Yesterday. Do you hear me?
MARCO: Loud and clear. The newspaper picture of William being pinned to a board.
ROSS: Where are we?
AGENT 1: We ID'd everyone who came in and out of the police station for the twenty four hours preceding the incident. The only one that we could not verify was a. He reads.
AGENT 1: Valarie Phillips. Picked up for drunk driving four hours before the hit on Rizzo.
ROSS: ( STUNNED )
AGENT 1: It's our only lead.
ROSS: Let's see her booking report.
AGENT 2: ( HESITANT )
ROSS: But not to get prints.
AGENT 1: We ran the prints in the data base. No match was found.
ROSS: Lovely. So if there is no booking record, how did we get the name?
AGENT 1: A library card. The only ID she had was a library card.
ROSS: I don't believe this.
AGENT 1: There are the surveillance tapes.
AGENT 2: From three angles.
ROSS: ( HOPEFUL )
ROSS: That's it?
AGENT 1: That's it. Ross sighs.
ROSS: It's not a lot to go on. But put them in the data base and let's see what matches. The agents exit. Ross looks at the pictures on the board.
ROSS: .a woman. Cannot believe it.
MARCO: Hello Eduardo, que pasa?
EDUARDO: I have fifty bucks on this shot. That's what's que pasa.
MARCO: ( SMILING )
MARCO: Here. For you. He goes to hand it to Eduardo.
EDUARDO: For what?
MARCO: First for fucking up your shot. Second, for an address. You remember Fabio? The Cataleya It's a long time. My memory.
EDUARDO: It's a long time. My memory.
MARCO: You went to school with his brother in law. What was his name? Emilio?
EDUARDO: Like I said.my memory. Now the men at the bar are starting to take notice.
MARCO: I have a problem. And we think Fabio's kid is behind it. Eduardo takes the roll of bills and puts it in Marco's shirt pocket.
EDUARDO: Look Marco. I gotta be honest with you. Everyone knows you guys were playing a double game, and when the shit went down, you were the only ones who got out of it The men at the bar are now edging closer. One of them has a shot gun resting along his leg, inconspicuous, and conspicuous at the same time.
MARCO: So you do have a memory.
EDUARDO: Yeah. For rats. Now get the fuck out, and let me take my shot.
MARCO: Marco looks at Eduardo, who glares at him. Eduardo goes to line up his shot. The tension in the room is thicker by the moment. As Eduardo is about to hit the ball, Marco grabs his hair and slams his forehead into the cue ball. At the same moment, Marco's two thugs whip out their guns and blast away. The shotgun wielding man, raises his gun, and as he is killed by Marco, his blast takes out one of Marco's thugs. In an instant it is over. Everyone is dead, except Marco, one of his thugs, and the dazed Eduardo. Marco notices his ear is bleeding, touches it, it pisses him off that blood has soiled his white shirt.
MARCO: Pissed, Marco yanks Eduardo up from the floor and slams him onto the pool table. Sticks his gun in his face.
MARCO: You don't tell me what I want to know by the count of three, you scum sucking lowlife prick, your memory will be permanently disabled. A buzzer sounds.
CAT: I brought you something. She is in a very sexy lingerie top. Her hands are behind her back.
DANNY: That's real progress. Let's see. She takes her hands out from behind her back, presents him with a cute little stuffed alligator.
DANNY: Wow! Just what I always wanted.
CAT: You're making fun.
DANNY: No. No. I mean, a gift from you. Something to show me you're thinking of me as more than your boy toy.
CAT: Well, there's that too. She starts to peel off the lingerie.
DANNY: She stops.
CAT: You don't want me?
DANNY: Of course I do. But can't we talk a little first?
CAT: What would you like to talk about?
DANNY: Oh, I don't know. Nothing. You really want to do this?
CAT: You really want to do this?
DANNY: Yes, I do.
CAT: ( AMUSED )
DANNY: So.what's new?
CAT: Nothing much. She stops. Waiting.
DANNY: Where have you been?
CAT: On vacation.
DANNY: Really? Where?
CAT: Down south.
DANNY: Where there are alligators?
CAT: There was that one.
DANNY: Was it nice?
CAT: It was OK.
DANNY: What did you do?
CAT: Nothing much. A little swimming, fed the fish.
DANNY: OK. Now you.
CAT: Now me what?
DANNY: Conversation. It goes two ways.
CAT: OK. Want to fuck? Danny starts to laugh. Cat, caught in the moment, begins to laugh as well.
DANNY: OK. OK. I get it. You want to protect yourself. I understand. But I'm.I don't just want to be here for the sex. I know a lot of guys would think this is perfect. She comes over, we fuck like mad. She leaves. But I need a little She keeps staring, waiting.
CAT: Like what?
DANNY: Like.uh.some trust maybe.
CAT: That's a hard one for me.
DANNY: I got that. I'm not in a hurry. And just so you know. The past? If it's too painful right now?
CAT: I'm lonely sometimes. She stops.
DANNY: Isn't that enough?
CAT: Isn't that enough?
DANNY: It's a good start. He smiles, puts the stuffed animal aside.
DANNY: Now we can have sex. Cat smiles, caught a bit off guard by his sweetness. He approaches her, she goes to touch him. He puts her hands down, gently.
DANNY: Let me this time. And for the first time, she lets him touch her first. Let's him kiss her lips, her neck, and as he goes south, kissing as he goes, the CAMERA holds on her face, and for the first time she allows herself to receive, to give herself over to being the seduced rather than the seducer. And she likes it.
DANNY: Cat is disoriented.
DANNY: I didn't know if you like your eggs over easy or scrambled, so I Cat jumps out of bed, starts to dress quickly.
DANNY: I shouldn't have done this. Pulls on her jeans.
CAT: I shouldn't have done this. Pulls on her jeans.
DANNY: Done what?
CAT: Any of it.
DANNY: Can we talk about it? Pulls on her top.
CAT: Can we talk about it? Pulls on her top.
DANNY: Can we talk about it? Pulls on her top.
CAT: We already talked. I'm late. Slips into her shoes. Does not answer.
DANNY: I made breakfast.
CAT: I don't like eggs. As she heads for the door, she turns.
CAT: Now you know something else about And with a small smile, she is gone.
CAT: ( TO HERSELF )
CAT: Sorry I'm late.
EMILIO: You said you would stop the writing! Then he shoves an article cut from a paper in her face.
EMILIO: Read this! As she starts.
EMILIO: Seven people slaughtered in a Miami bar. I knew one of them. Years ago, in school.
CAT: So what?
EMILIO: I don't like it. This is getting too close.
CAT: Tio. Could be anyone. You're seeing things that aren't there.
EMILIO: And you are so blinded by your need for revenge that you are not seeing things that are. The handwriting is on the wall Cara. Let me read it to you. This is over. I will no longer accept jobs. I will no longer solicit jobs. You are retired.
CAT: How many people did you kill in revenge for your boy's death? How many? And you're going to give me a lecture about revenge?
EMILIO: ( CALM )
EMILIO: Maybe this will help you understand what I am telling you. Emilio leaves first this time. Cat just stands there, her world rocked. She opens the envelope, takes out a photograph, looks at it.
ON CAT: Her eyes well up. She can't hold it anymore. She begins to cry.
VOICE: Five six. Brown eyes, hazel really, dark hair, thick, shiny.
DANNY: Great body, killer smile.
RYAN: Dude, you're in love.
DANNY: You're so smart.
RYAN: Seriously. This comes from the heart. OK?
DANNY: I knew you were the perfect guy to talk about this with.
RYAN: Hey come on. It's me. Since first grade. You and me? He crosses his fingers.
DANNY: Ryan, I'm twenty eight. I met someone who I want to be with. All the time. I have nothing. A stuffed animal.
RYAN: You have a picture?
DANNY: In my phone.
RYAN: Give it up! Danny takes out his iPhone.
DANNY: It's not even a whole picture. I took it while she was asleep. Shows Ryan the picture he took of Cat.
RYAN: Whoa.total babe-age! When do I meet the future Mrs. Delaney?
DANNY: Haven't you been listening to me? I don't even know how to get in touch with her.
RYAN: Dude. That is such a no brainer.
SHARI: You know, if you weren't my brother's best friend.
RYAN: You're doing it for love Shari. Not for me. When they walk down the aisle, you can say you were the one made it happen.
DANNY: Maybe I shouldn't.
SHARI: Up to you Danny. I do it all the time. Photo goes in here. Bangs around the National Data base looking for a match. Bingo. Address, phone number, shoe size, dress size, rap sheet, anything you want to know. It's really no big deal.
DANNY: I just feel like, maybe, I'm invading her privacy or something.
SHARI: Hey guys, I haven't got all day. ( holds her hand on the send button on
RYAN: Of course yes. He hits the button. Cat's picture appears on the screen with the message: BEGIN DOWNLOAD.
ROSS: ( EXCITED )
MAMA: Cara. You will come home for lunch.
CAT: No Mama. One thing at a time. She kisses them and walks off.
MAMA: That was such a nice surprise.
PEPE: I knew it would happen.
EMILIO: Everyone grows up.
MAMA: I think she's going to be OK.
EMILIO: I think so. As their car pulls into the driveway of the house.
REVERSE ON: INT. CAR - DAY From down the street. Watching Emilio, Mama, and Pepe enter the house. Marco. And three thugs.
TECH: We need a common base, so let's try size. He punches his keyboard. The computer screen shuffles the pictures until they all match up, one on top of the other. And on the screen: SIZE CONFIRMATION: MATCH 96%
TECH: Good.now let's see.hands. He focuses in on the hands on the pictures from the security tape and the ones from Danny's iPhone picture. The images start moving, matching. And when they are coordinated, on the screen: HAND CONFIRMATION: MATCH 95%
TECH: Looking good. And now. He types in nose match. Again the pictures shuffle, line up. NOSE CONFIRMATION: MATCH 98%
TECH: Nice nose.
TECH: That's your girl.
DANNY: It's me.
INTERCUT: It's me.
CAT: It's me.
DANNY: Oh my god! I can't believe it! Hello you.
CAT: Are you busy?
INTERCUT: No. I.no.
DANNY: No. I.no.
CAT: I was just sitting here, looking out the window. And I thought.where are you?
INTERCUT: In my apartment. Looking out the So we're seeing the same sky. ROSS watches the search narrow.
DANNY: In my apartment. Looking out the So we're seeing the same sky. ROSS watches the search narrow.
CAT: So we're seeing the same sky. ROSS watches the search narrow.
DANNY: Yes. I'm so happy to hear your And I'm happy to hear yours.
CAT: And I'm happy to hear yours.
BUILDING: We got her! I want SWAT there! All of them! Now!
ROSS: We got her! I want SWAT there! All of them! Now!
DANNY: You know it's so crazy. I was just sitting here, looking at your picture, thinking "I'd wish I could call her." And you called. Cat's antenna go up.
CAT: .What picture? Danny gulps hard, realizing he has made a mistake.
DANNY: I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't have. But I have nothing to remember you by, except this little What picture Danny???
CAT: ( TIGHT )
DANNY: I took a picture of you while you were sleeping. With my phone. Cat leaps out of her chair, on full alert now. She opens her cabinet to the four screens.
DANNY: Jen. I'm sorry. Really. I didn't mean to offend you. Cat attaches a device to her computer. Does not respond.
DANNY: .it's just you looked so cute. I can erase it if you want. It's not even a good picture.Jen? Cat is not listening, she is looking at a message flashing across the screen. THIRD PARTY ON LINE.
CAT: ( NERVES KEENING )
DANNY: Nobody. My friend Ryan.
CAT: Who else?
DANNY: His sister. I didn't want to..it's just.I wanted to contact you. I wanted to.
CAT: ( HARD )
DANNY: Shari, that's Ryan's sister.she works at Police headquarters. And now Cat knows everything.
DANNY: I just wanted to be. On her surveillance screens, Cat sees FBI SWAT pulling up to the building.
CAT: Closer. I know. Goodbye Danny. Cat hangs up, rushes into the bathroom, turns the shower on full blast. Hurrying out, on her screens, she sees the SWAT swarming into the building. Cat opens a cabinet. On the back of the door are a dozen keys. She chooses one. She checks the screens one more time, sees the SWAT rushing the stairs, the elevators. She turns off her screens. And runs out of the apartment in her t-shirt and panties. INT. STAIRCASES - DAY The SWAT are running up the stairs.
SWAT 1: ( whispers, on mic ) Ross signals for a scope. SWAT 2 takes a flex cam, and begins to slide it under the door.
GUY: He reaches out to grab her. Cat grabs his hand and slams his face into his tray of food, knocking him cold.
AGENT 1: INT. HALL - DAY On the video cam, Ross is seeing nothing in Cat's apartment. He points to one of the SWAT, signals for him to set charges against the door. The man begins to do so.
AGENT 1: No ma'am everything is under control. We just need you to stay inside. May we have a look around? As the FBI enters.
BOOM!: INT. HALL - DAY Cat's door blows open, the SWAT flood in.
ROSS: She's not here. Lock the building INT. BATHROOM - DAY Cat lets go. And drops.
UTILITY POLES: INT. CAT'S APARTMENT - DAY Ross is looking at the bank of security monitors in Cat's cabinet, sees all his men, all over the place, inside the building, outside.
ROSS: Where the hell did she go?
ROSS: No one in or out! Lock this place down! Anyone?
AGENT 1: Nothing here.
AGENT 2: Nothing here.
AGENT 1: Nothing.wait.one security camera INT. ELEVATOR - DAY Ross pauses.
AGENT 1: The second one is down.
ROSS: AGENT 1
AGENT 1: The garage!
ROSS: ( into walkie talkie ) All units! Converge on the garage. Cover every exit!
ROSS: ( FRUSTRATED )
CAT: I'm sorry.I'm sorry.I'm sorry
OPERATOR: Federal Bureau of Investigation. How may I direct your call?
CAT: I'd like to speak to the agent in charge of the TAG killings.
ROSS: Agent Ross. Hello? Hello?
CAT: This won't take long. Hands up. Ross raises his hands. Cat reaches around, removes his Turn around. Ross faces her.
CAT: Turn around. Ross faces her.
CAT: She motions him into the chair behind him.
ROSS: Just so you know, all this? Being so smart? Covering all your bases? It's not going to matter. It's already over. The whole place is wired with web cams. His moment of triumph is short lived. Cat reaches on the side of the counter. Holds up six web cams, wires ripped You mean these? Tosses the ripped out cams onto the table.
CAT: You mean these? Tosses the ripped out cams onto the table.
CAT: Talking about covering all your bases. Your chair is pressure wired. You move your ass one inch you don't have one anymore. Ross looks under the chair. Sure enough, there are several wires leading out of the bottom of the chair. He looks further to the where the wires attach to a small charge. She puts her gun down on the table.
CAT: I know what you're thinking. Maybe yes a bluff, maybe no. But you have to figure yes, given what you know about me. Ross does not move.
CAT: This wasn't what I had in mind for myself when I was a kid. I wanted to be on the other side of things. Like you.
ROSS: So what happened?
CAT: He did. She takes out an old picture of Don Luis, lifted from the internet. She takes out the picture of her parents and her as an eight year old.
CAT: This is the last time I was happy.
ROSS: And all this? All these clues.they weren't for us. They were for him.
CAT: I didn't know how else to find And you figured sooner or later we would make this public.
ROSS: And you figured sooner or later we would make this public.
CAT: It took you a long time.
ROSS: You're very patient.
CAT: What else do I have to be? I have no one. I did. Until this morning. I had them. She takes out pictures of dead Mama, dead Emilio, dead You sent him a message. He sent you one back.
ROSS: You sent him a message. He sent you one back.
CAT: And now I want to finish it.
ROSS: I can't help you.
CAT: Yes you can. He's protected by your government.
ROSS: By a part of the government I have no way of reaching. It's CIA. I don't know why. But there's no getting through it, under it, around it, believe me, I've tried.
CAT: You're going to have to try harder. She takes a photo album out, opens it.
CAT: I found this on your table inside. Your family, right? Begins to flip pages.
CAT: Brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews. Mother, father. Nice. Ross knows what is coming.
CAT: I know this sounds harsh. But until I get what I want, you'll go to a funeral a week. And you will begin to feel what I have felt all these years. She places the photo album in his lap. Puts his food in the microwave, starts it. Goes to exit.
ROSS: She stops.
ROSS: What about.? He points to the chair.
CAT: When your dinner's ready, the timer on it will have expired. Then you can get to work. And she is gone. Ross watches the timer on the microwave. When it beeps, he sits a moment longer. Hesitates to get up. Little by little, he moves himself off the chair, tentative. Afraid that any moment, BOOM! Until he makes the final move, stands just enough to clear the seat, waiting for the worst to happen. And when it doesn't, he breathes a sigh of relief.
RICHARD: You understand, I only agreed to this meeting out of professional The President wanting us to reach out to you folks on the domestic side, and all that pie in the sky The truth is, I really can't help you at all.
ROSS: Can't or won't.
RICHARD: Same thing really.
ROSS: Look, let's put all our cards on the table here. I've met this woman. The killer.
RICHARD: ( SKEPTICAL )
ROSS: My apartment. She trapped me. She told me if I did not get her this man. He puts Luis's picture on the desk.
ROSS: She will kill a member of my family every day until I have none. Richard pauses. Then he begins to laugh.
RICHARD: You're kidding me?
ROSS: Do I look like I could make something like that up? Richard says nothing.
ROSS: So? What should I do now?
RICHARD: I'd go to the police. Now if you'll excuse me, I have a meeting. He goes to rise, when Ross's phone rings. He answers.
ROSS: ( BEAT )
ROSS: Bright red.
RICHARD: What does she think this is? Amateur hour? Tell her that glass is tempered to resist a direct hit by a fifty seven millimeter All of the sudden, a bullet shatters the window; destroying a picture of Richard standing with the President hanging on the wall just behind his head. The red dot is back on Richard in a heartbeat.
ROSS: She says she's using seven point six two steel jacketed armor piercing shells. And you have ten seconds to give her the address. Richard starts to come unglued.
RICHARD: How can I be sure once she has the address she won't kill me anyway?
ROSS: You can't. But I can assure you that if you don't give her the address you will be number twenty four on her hit parade. Trust me on this one. After an interminable moment.
RICHARD: Eight seven six Magnolia Terrace. New Orleans. There is a long pause on the other end of the phone.
ROSS: She asked you to keep this conversation strictly confidential.
RICHARD: ( SWEATING )
ROSS: Thank you. Because honestly I didn't know how I was going to explain you splattered all over your walls. Ross exits. Richard looks at the shattered picture. The President's head is intact. The bullet has ripped Richard's face clean off. CLOSE ON A BIG STEEL DOOR OPENING REVEALING An ARMORY OF WEAPONS FROM PISTOLS TO RPG's.
CAT: You guys ever been to New Orleans? Off the dog's puzzled faces.
SMASH!!!!!: The red truck smashes through the doors of Pepe's warehouse.
FADE TO: INT. TRUCK - NIGHT Cat drives through the night, just watching the road. The dogs sit behind her, also watching the road. She passes a sign: NEW ORLEANS 500 MILES.
CAT: Good morning.
CAT: I didn't know if you took sugar and cream, so I got one of each.
SMITH: Who are you?
CAT: You designed the house at eight seven six Magnolia.
SMITH: You either leave immediately young lady or I am going to call the Cat pulls a gun.
CAT: I would love to see the plans of this house.
MARCO: You will take up positions here.
MARCO: And here. And here. You must expect the unexpected. She is like mist under a door, like a mouse in the wall. She will never attack straight on. You will not see her, until it is too late. She is that invisible. ON DON LUIS as he sips his cognac. He sees a big red truck approaching in the distance up the road. As he watches, squinting, curious, the truck does an abrupt U turn. Marco drones on in the background.
MARCO: We would prefer she be taken alive. But with a bitch like this, if you get a kill shot you take it. .Don Luis watches, as a woman gets out of the truck. He cannot make out who it is, what with the fog and his He sees the woman open the rear door of the truck, and pull something out. He takes his glasses out of his pocket, puts them on. Just in time to see.
DON LUIS: He sees the woman open the rear door of the truck, and pull something out. He takes his glasses out of his pocket, puts them on. Just in time to see.
DON LUIS: Marco turns.
MARCO!: Marco turns.
MARCO: You four! Get the armored Mercedes! We have to get Don Luis out of The four run off.
MARCO: Don Luis! This way! Everyone to their positions! As they all run out.
THUG: OK! Everyone in! But just as they open the doors to the big Mercedes.
ANGLE ON: Don Luis! You hide here. He opens a secret door in the wall, revealing a small space. Barely big enough for a man.
MARCO: Don Luis! You hide here. He opens a secret door in the wall, revealing a small space. Barely big enough for a man.
MARCO: Wait for my call. Either she is dead, or we have her far enough away so you can make it to the garage. Take the van. The armor is so thick nothing short of an atomic bomb can penetrate it.
DON LUIS: Marco. Thank you.
MARCO: ( TOUCHED )
DON LUIS: Said what?
MARCO: Thank you.
DON LUIS: Don't get used to it. Don Luis shuts the door. Off the door slamming. Another door opens, but this one is.
MARCO: Marco and the thugs dive for cover.
BAARROOM!: The grenade blows a big hole in the floor. As soon as the smoke and the debris stop falling.
MARCO: The thugs hesitate. Marco points his gun at them.
MARCO: Hesitant, the thugs approach the hole. Pointing their weapons, they unload a barrage of bullets. Then stop. Nothing moves. One of them peers over the side.
BANG!: A single shot pieces his eye.
MARCO: The thugs and Marco run.
MARCO: Kill her! The thugs manning the guns let loose, blasting away. Smoke and flashes from the muzzles mingle with the fog.
MARCO: ( WHISPERS )
MARCO: ( WHISPERS )
DON LUIS: Did you see the body?
DON LUIS: EXT. DON LUIS'S MANSION - DAY And then he starts screaming into the hole, careful to stand just off to the side.
MARCO: ( INTO PHONE )
MARCO: You know what bitch? I loved killing your father. He was a coward! And you know what else? I screwed your mother behind your father's back! We all did! She couldn't get enough of it! The whore! I killed her! I killed him! You want to avenge them? The whore and the coward? That's what you come from! Come out! I'm here! Come get the bullet with your name on it, Bitch! Silence. And then, a whistle from above. Marco looks up to see Cat, standing on a second floor balcony with two Kill her! Marco starts to fire, his men raise their guns. Too late. In the blink of an eye, with bullets flying wildly all around her, Cat blows five of the seven thugs surrounding Marco away. Marco and the remaining two thugs run toward the guest house. Out of the range of her guns.
MARCO: Kill her! Marco starts to fire, his men raise their guns. Too late. In the blink of an eye, with bullets flying wildly all around her, Cat blows five of the seven thugs surrounding Marco away. Marco and the remaining two thugs run toward the guest house. Out of the range of her guns.
DON LUIS: Marco! Marco!
MARCO: You two here! That door opens. He points to the door they just came through.
MARCO: .kill anything that comes through. Marco runs into the bedroom.
MARCO: He runs for the door again. Just as he has his hand on the knob, two shots ring out.
MARCO: No answer. He checks his gun, realizes he is out of ammo. He knows his time has come. He drops is gun, backs away from the door. Backs right up to the bed, and sits down. His phone rings.
MARCO: No answer. He checks his gun, realizes he is out of ammo. He knows his time has come. He drops is gun, backs away from the door. Backs right up to the bed, and sits down. His phone rings.
DON LUIS: Marco! What the hell's going on???
MARCO: Hold on.
MARCO: I will hold here! Run! Run! The door shatters as Cat kicks her way in. Marco pulls his trigger. Click! Click! Click! Marco is frozen. Just stares at Cat. Waiting for what is going to come.
MARCO: Do it! Do it you bitch! Isn't this the moment you've been waiting Yes, it is. She empties her gun into him.
CAT: Yes, it is. She empties her gun into him.
DON LUIS: ( LAUGHING MADLY )
DON LUIS: It's Cataleya.
CAT: It's Cataleya.
DON LUIS: I don't understand you. You should have been dead a long time ago. You got lucky. You escaped. You were given a second chance at a life. Why did you not take it? Why did you involve yourself with this insanity?
CAT: For something you can never understand. The love I had for my parents. And you killed that.
DON LUIS: And because of that, you have ruined your whole life to try to kill me? You stupid bitch. Don't you get it? Someone like me?
CAT: Actually Don Luis.you are exactly where I want you to be. Don Luis doesn't get it. And then he hears a low growling behind him. He turns a little, sees sitting there in the dark recesses of the van, two enormous dogs. Pepe's dogs. His eyes register confusion, then apprehension.
CAT: EXT. ARMORED VAN - DAY Over the sounds of the dogs tearing Don Luis to pieces and his horrible screams, the van shakes as if it were caught in an earthquake.
EAT!: EXT. ARMORED VAN - DAY Over the sounds of the dogs tearing Don Luis to pieces and his horrible screams, the van shakes as if it were caught in an earthquake.
ROSS: Was there anything else?
DANNY: I already told you everything. She would come over, we'd have amazing sex, and she would leave. It's really late, and I'm really tired, if you're not going to arrest We don't really have anything to charge you with.
ROSS: We don't really have anything to charge you with.
DANNY: Then can I go?
ROSS: Just a few more questions.
DANNY: Can I have a cup of coffee?
ROSS: Ross gets up and leaves the room. Danny is feeling really shitty. He takes his phone out of his pocket, looks at Cat's picture. And then it rings.
DANNY: INTERCUT BETWEEN.
DANNY: ( STUNNED )
DANNY: FBI headquarters. I didn't tell them anything.besides.
DANNY: I know.
DANNY: OK.What's your real name?
DANNY: Like the flower. Now Cat smiles. How did he know that?
DANNY: Will I ever see you again?
CAT: I know where to find you.
AGENT 1: Ross. We're picking something up off that kid's phone. Ross drops the coffee, hurries back to the office.
DANNY: If there is ever a chance. I want you to know.I could love you. If you let me.
DANNY: .I love you. Cat holds on that one for a moment.then the beeping of a phone connection cut.Danny closes his eyes. Ross bursts into the office. Grabs the phone from his hands.
ROSS: Cataleya? Cataleya!
THE END: Writers : Robert Mark Kamen Luc Besson
