CREDITS: Credits start on a black screen, then they continue during the whole scene at Michelle's place, and they end at the beginning of the scene at Bill Capa's office.
MICHELLE: God !.. No !.. Michelle is back in front of the mirror of her dressing-table. She takes the lipstick and put a lot of it on her lips, then on her teeth, then all around her mouth. She makes faces to herself in the mirror. She seems more and more disturbed. She takes a chrome-plated revolver in her drawer, starts to put it in her purse, then takes it out, spins the cylinder of the revolver, and puts the revolver in her mouth, as if she wanted to kill herself. But instead, she starts sucking the barrel, while she strokes the revolver in a quite erotic way.
BILL'S VOICE: So who do you think is the enemy ?. No, no, give me a specific answer. . then Michelle appears on the screen. She is dressed in a green suit, she is heavily made up, et she still seems very disturbed. The office is very chic and evidently belongs to a very rich New- York psycho-analyst. Beautiful and good taste furniture. Shelves with leather-bound books.
MICHELLE: You are the goddamned enemy, Capa, you and this all tower of psycho-babble. You know what I hope ? That God gets real pissed off and He shrivels up your cock, so that it points straight down to Hell, where you belongs !. During this reply, Bill Capa has appeared on the screen. He is seated. He is wearing a long-sleeve shirt, a necktie, but no jacket. He laughs at Michelle's last sentence.
BILL: OK. Michelle, so you will become His Avenging Angel, and swoop down to finish me off. He stands up.
MICHELLE: Now, I finally get it : you're are like my ex-husband. You think that everything got to be either black or white because you got color-blind. But God is on my side now. He knows I'm not like you
BILL: Well, we are pretty much the same, Michelle. We all do it.
MICHELLE: We all do what ?
BILL: Tend to view our lives as we were looking through a keyhole. I's a very limited view of the truth. So, we have to fill in the blanks. We invent things.
MICHELLE: I don't know what you mean.
BILL: You invent enemies to test your strength against. You invent gods to protect you from these enemies.
MICHELLE: Cutting him.
BILL: Who is the enemy ? One minute you have friends, the next moment they've slipped away. You leave here and I wonder who is Michelle really hating this week. I try to remember and I can't bring it to mind. Do you know why ?
MICHELLE: No, why don't you tell me
BILL: Take a look in the mirror, Michelle
MICHELLE: Which mirror ?. This mirror ?.
BILL: Any mirror. Tell me what you see.
MICHELLE: We see Michelle as if we were watching her from behind the mirror. During this last reply, Bill, standing up, is fidgeting with something on his desk. At Michelle's last words, he turns toward her, looking alarmed. But he doesn't have time to do prevent her from breaking through the glass pane and jumping outside. He yells «Michelle» twice.
SEVERAL VOICES: All right, get back there. Stay back !. Get back in your car. Stop it.
BILL: Voice over.
BILL: Christ, Ed. It was like a vibration of color broadcast from Hell. And then the red started to fade away. The ophthalmologist moves the device away. We see Bill's face, and behind him, projected on the wall, an abstract drawing made of colored spots close together. The red spots start to blink and then they become grey.
LARRY: Poor Capa ! You're here for me to pity you. Larry puts down the newspaper he was reading. It is the New York Post. On the front page, a title in large prints : «Patient's family sues Manhattan shrink»
BILL: Hell, yes. It doesn't take Sigmund Freud to figure out I don't care to see the color of my patients' blood.
LARRY: I'm a little surprised that this happened to you.
BILL: Starts to stand up. Sure. You always thought I was a cold-hearted son of a Not really, but there is a kind of arrogance here. Bill laughs. Do you really believe that you're responsible for her illness. You were a small recent part of her life.
LARRY: Not really, but there is a kind of arrogance here. Bill laughs. Do you really believe that you're responsible for her illness. You were a small recent part of her life.
BILL: Yes, that's right, that's right. But it's all too fucking glib for me, Larry. I cannot dispose of this woman that Well, you always were a romantic. Are you involved with anyone else ? Larry starts to make tea in a corner of the room. Bill is seated on an armchair during the following reply, and strokes the grey cat who is lying on the table.
LARRY: Well, you always were a romantic. Are you involved with anyone else ? Larry starts to make tea in a corner of the room. Bill is seated on an armchair during the following reply, and strokes the grey cat who is lying on the table.
BILL: No. I am still a romantic. I just don't have anybody to be romantic with. They want to fuck me or marry me. None of them want to love me
LARRY: Maybe you don't want to be loved. You had a happy marriage She loved me to death. Then she ran off and loved somebody else to death.
BILL: She loved me to death. Then she ran off and loved somebody else to death.
LARRY: Of course, there is something else here. To deny red is to deny emotion.
BILL: Oh yeah !
LARRY: As you know, that could be very dangerous. Bill stands up.
BILL: Yes, yes, I know. Very dangerous. I know and I have got something broken. I know it's gonna take some time to get He picks up his jacket on a chair and put it on.
LARRY: You're a pretty good therapist. How long does it take a man like you to forgive himself.
BILL: I see you when I get back from Los Angeles. During the two last replies, Bill has walked to the front door.
LARRY: Don't run away because of one treatment failure.
BILL: I'm not running away, Larry, it's just a little trip to Los Angeles. Besides, you can't really run away. It's all up here, isn't it. He shows his forehead and pretends he is shooting a bullet in it. Pow !. It's a package deal. The head goes with me.
STEWARDESS: Ladies and Gentlemen, welcome to Los Angeles. Please remain seated until the aircraft comes. The end of the sentence is not understandable, because it is mixed with the sound of a radio set in a car.
TAXI DRIVER: Hey ! Jerk-off ! What are you looking at ! There's an accident !. Short shot of the accident. . Hey ! What happened ? Anybody is hurt ? Anybody is dead ? Car horns. A car bumps into the back of the taxi. Bill moves forward and backward, and then massages the back of his head. What are you doing ? You 're looking there and driving here ? Put the pedal on the metal. Asshole !
CLARK: He is dressed with a very neat grey suit. Everything on him is neat : not a hair going the wrong way.
CASEY: He is seated on an armchair shaped like a giant hand. He looks ver «artist». He wears his hair tied in a ponytail. He is making fun of Clark.
CLARK: 38. 14. 29. 304. Casey, you're such a weenie !
CASEY: 29. 304. Casey, you're such a weenie !
CLARK: 29. 304. Casey, you're such a weenie !
CASEY: 29. 304. Casey, you're such a weenie !
CLARK: 29. 304. Casey, you're such a weenie !
CASEY: 29. 304. Casey, you're such a weenie !
SONDRA: Casey, you're such a weenie !
BUCK: He looks very rough, with his uncombed grey hair. He wears a red sweater without shirt, and a jacket.
CLARK: Clark !
BUCK: Clark !
CASEY: Clark !
BUCK: Clark !
CLARK: Yeah !
BUCK: Did you read the paper to-day ?
CLARK: No !
BUCK: He take off his jacket. Casey laughs.
CLARK: Oh Christ ! I fell right into that ! We see Bob behind the glass on the door of the room. He wears a shirt and a necktie, but no jacket. He looks pensively at the 4. 47. I care that he is late.
CASEY: 4. 47. I care that he is late.
CLARK: 4. 47. I care that he is late.
BUCK: I care that he is late.
CASEY: I don't get it.
SONDRA: I do too.
CASEY: I don't care.
SONDRA: Why not ?
BUCK: Because his father's paying for his therapy.
SONDRA: Oh, my dead husband is paying for mine, and I still care. Casey is looking for his lighter. We see Sondra taping her chin with the lighter, then giving it back to Casey.
CASEY: Unbelievable !. Bob enters the room.
BOB: I think we should get started now. Clark. He closes the door. We hear Bill's voice.
BILL: Hey Bob !
BOB: God ! Bill !
BOB: How you doing ? You look great.
BILL: I'm good.
BOB: I' sorry I'm late. I got stuck in traffic on the freeway.
BILL: I' sorry I'm late. I got stuck in traffic on the freeway.
BOB: Listen. We're just about to get started.
BILL: You know. I'll just wait out here for a while.
BOB: Why don't you join us ?
BILL: Oh no. Listen. I's the last thing I need right now.
BOB: I'm serious. I could use a second look.
BILL: No, Bob. Not tonight. Bob drags him by the sleeve and pushes him into the meeting room.
BOB: This is my friend, and colleague, Bill Capa, from New-York. Why don't you sit down over there, Bill. He sits next to Clark, who stands up to give him room. . I thought it might be interesting for you, and for him, if he sat in one of our session.
BUCK: What kind of a shrink are you ?
BILL: I'm a behaviorist.
CASEY: Qualifications ?
BILL: Same as Bob. We went to college together. We fought the battle at Penn State Mental Hospital, as interns.
BOB: No one is gonna be offended if you want to say no.
BUCK: No, Bob !
SONDRA: She simpers while she talks.
BILL: Fine, thank you, Sondra.
CLARK: Medical degree ?
BILL: No. I'm a psychologist and a psycho-analyst, not a psychiatrist. The Ph.D. is from N.Y.U.
CLARK: OK ! Thank you.
CASEY: So, it's Bill and Bob, therapy "à deux" !
BOB: Why don't we begin by introducing ourselves and then saying as much or as little about why we are here as we are confortable with. The secretary closes the door behind Bob's back, who remains seated and only turns his head slightly.
BUCK: Name's Buck.
SONDRA: Oh, that's helpful. Very macho of you
BUCK: That's an anti-gender remark
BOB: Sondra ! Sondra, whey don't you start us off ?
SONDRA: She simpers a lot and makes strange faces while she talks. Richie looks at Bill's feet. Bill is wearing a red sock and a green sock, which makes Richie smile. Clark looks embarrassed. Casey sneers. Richie put his walkman earphones back on his ears.
BOB: Thank you.
SONDRA: Richie !.
THANKS: Richie !.
BOB: Richie !.
CASEY: This will be an event
BOB: Richie ! Richie doesn't hear a thing because of his earphones.
BUCK: Yelling louder. He signals him to take off his earphones. Richie takes them off.
RICHIE: What !
BOB: Would you like to tell Bill a little something about yourself ?
RICHIE: No !
CLARK: OK. If nobody else is going to do it, I will. Richie has a gender identity problem, and social phobia, and he's promised the group no to wear the walkman in this group.
BUCK: Doctor Clark, to lay the inventory on. I like that.
CLARK: Oh, Saint Christopher rattles his chain.
BUCK: Saint Michael, sir.
CLARK: This is not about you.
BUCK: You're right.
BOB: You know what I am saying ?. He talks to Richie.
RICHIE: One feels he has elocution problems. He stutters and looks for his
CASEY: Imitating him. Richie jumps on Casey. Sondra stands up to stop him, but she is toot late. Richie falls on Casey and knocks his armchair down.
RICHIE: Fuck you !. Fuck you !. I'll tear your fuckin' head off ! You fuckin' cocksucker !
BUCK: Get up! They fight on the floor. Buck tries to take them apart. He succeeds in tearing Richie away by holding him with both arms, and carrying him away.
RICHIE: Get the fuck off me !
BOB: Richie gets free and walks rapidly out of the room. Sondra tries to follow him. Bob stops her.
SONDRA: Richie !
BOB: It's all right. He'll come back.
BUCK: Voice over. Bob straightens up the armchair and Casey stands up sneering.
CASEY: Was it something I said ?
SONDRA: You are an asshole !
BOB: You know, guys. A little humanity.
BUCK: Talking to Bill.
SONDRA: Why don't you stop feeling responsible for everyone.
BUCK: Would you stop wound-licking, Sondra.
SONDRA: She seems a bit shocked.
BOB: Buck ?
BUCK: I lost my wife. and daughter. And it just can't seem to pass. All right ?
BILL: Very sorry. How did they die ?
BUCK: They say. He starts crying. . I. I can't talk about it. Sondra turns her head away : she looks disturbed and moved. Clark wipes his eyes.
BOB: Casey ?
CASEY: He talks in articulating his words in an affected manner. At the end of his reply, he seems to be ready to cry. He puts his head in his hands, then shows his laughing face.
SONDRA: Can't you ever be serious ?.
BUCK: Does a bear poop in the woods ? I sit next to Clark He moves to sit behind Clark. He lights a cigarette.
CLARK: And then smoke up a storm. My name is Clark. I'm a lawyer. And I. I have a compulsive obsessive disorder.
CASEY: So what's the problem ? He sneers.
CLARK: The problem is that if you and Buck are going to smoke in here, then the door to Doctor Moore's office must remain opened in minimum of fifteen inches. Buck comes and sits next to Casey. They smoke together.
SONDRA: I can't stand smoke. OK ? Buck and Casey puff clouds of smoke.
CLARK: And I would also like to suggest that you buy one of those How come you don't listen to Clark ? How come you don't do anything about this, Bob ?
SONDRA: How come you don't listen to Clark ? How come you don't do anything about this, Bob ?
CLARK: . that sucks up the smoke and purifies it. They cost nine dollars and ninety-nine cents, half of which is four- ninety-nine point five.
CASEY: HE LAUGHS
HE LAUGHS: He's going to open the door.
CLARK: One of you will have to pay an extra penny, but I'm sure you can work that out.
CASEY: He's going to open the door.
CLARK: I'm going to open the door. General laugh. Several incomprehensible words. We understand only Sondra's next reply.
SONDRA: You smell like an ashtray.
CLARK: You know, if you don't act more seriously in groups. Richie enters the room.
SONDRA: Hi, Richie !
BUCK: He's back.
CASEY: He's back.
BUCK: Next time you get snot on the doorknob.
SONDRA: Come sit down here.
BOB: Bill. What would you like to tell us about yourself ? Richie walks behind Bill to reach his seat.
BILL: Well. I have plenty of problems. the biggest of which right now is jet-lag. So I think I'll pass for now, Bob.
BOB: Fair enough.
SONDRA: .She's like a daughter to me. We hang out. Meaning that. It's wonderful.
BOB: He looks at this watch.
BUCK: Way to go. Bob gets up very quickly. Everyone does like him, but more slowly. Bob turns back before he leaves the room.
BOB: Bill. I'll be with you in a couple of minutes. Bill nods in agreement.
SONDRA: Coffee, anyone?
BUCK: Coffee, anyone?
BILL: He whispers. Bill remains seated and nods to the people getting out. Clark remains, behind Bill, in front of the shelves. He puts something back in a plastic bag and mumbles something we don't understand. Bill turns toward him.
CLARK: He whispers. Bill remains seated and nods to the people getting out. Clark remains, behind Bill, in front of the shelves. He puts something back in a plastic bag and mumbles something we don't understand. Bill turns toward him.
CLARK: Have you read Bob's book ?
BILL: No, I haven't.
CLARK: He puts the bag in the pocket of this jacket, and takes a book on a shelf. He gives it to Bill.
BILL: "Way to go". I'm glad to hear you liked it.
CLARK: He wipes his hand with a white handkerchief, wipes the handle of his black leather case before taking it, and then puts the handkerchief in the pocket of his pants.
BILL: Bill holds his hand out, but Clark does not take it. He just nods in a friendly way and goes out. Alone, Bill flips through the books.
BILL: Alone at last !.
BOB: Are you OK ?
BILL: Well, nobody jumped out of the window. So maybe I am making BOB'S CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT Bob's expensive convertible Mercedes starts away. On the back license plate, we can read «WAY TO GO». The roof of the car is open. The rest of the scene takes place inside the car driving through Los Angeles.
BOB: You want to get a drink ?
BILL: Hu-hu !
BOB: You want to get laid ?
BILL: He laughs.
BOB: So what do you think of my little group ?
BILL: What's Buck's story ?
BOB: You mean, how did he loose his wife and kid. I don't know yet. He's not talking yet. Either !
BILL: How about Casey ?
BOB: You tell me !
BILL: Well. I smell money. Lots of it. Maybe an abusive father. How am I doing so far ?
BOB: A Plus !
BILL: Daddy pays for the expensive loft downtown, and the very expensive artistic life style, as long a junior stays in You got the hair on the back of my neck standing up !
BOB: You got the hair on the back of my neck standing up !
BILL: Yes, I'm a psychic when it comes to masochists. Five'll get you ten he likes to whack now and then.
BOB: Where did you get that from ?
BILL: I was born with it. Like a tuning fork.
BOB: What about Richie ?
BILL: Genuine nut-case.
BOB: Dangerous ?
BILL: Volatile ! Don't fuck with a trapped rat !
BOB: Oh, I see. "Trapped rat" syndrome with a recommendation of a "Non fuck with" therapy ! Bill laughs. Well, can I quote you on that ? They have reached a quieter road.
BILL: Yes, you may. Takes notes, there'll be a pop-quiz later !.
BOB: OK, I'm ready. Bob turns on his left to enter his residence.
BILL: All right, if I diagnose a schizophrenia, what do you recommend ?
BOB: Don't fuck with it !
BILL: Now, you got it.
BILL: It's all one place ?. They come near a door shaped like a giant keyhole. A metallic gate slides behind the door to let them in. Like peeking through a keyhole. They get down a few steps and reach a lawn. You get a very limited. view of the truth..
BOB: What's that ? Bill looks with admiration at the pool, and at the huge and impressive house, very Hollywood-like.
BILL: "Way to go" must have gone really well !
BOB: Yeah !
BOB: After you, wise guy. Come on. Bill laughs.
BILL: Oh, men. He laughs, looking at the luxury that surrounds him. The best and the most expensive in modern furniture. Large expensive paintings hanged on the walls. Leather armchairs. Bob types a secret code on a keyboard. Then he switch on a small TV set that shows the pictures from all the security cameras. So, how are we as we approach forty ?
BOB: We are in a good shape. Really good shape. We finally got divorced. We have some money. He puts back in place a painting that was slightly crooked. . We're meticulous.
BILL: He takes off his jacket.
BOB: We have a little friend. You'll meet her.
BILL: She's too young for you.
BOB: Ohh !
BILL: He sits behind the bar.
BOB: This woman is not a cliché. He has taken two bottle of beer from the fridge and he gives one to Bill.
BILL: They clink the two bottle and drink the beer from the bottle.
BOB: You too !. So. Bill plays with a «piece of art», consisting of an assembly of square pieces of glass glued together into a larger square. The object can pivot on his stand and, when you look through it, you get a distorted view of whatever is behind it. You're ready yet ?
BILL: Ready to what ? We see the distorted face of Bill through the «piece of art», or rather several distorted view of Bill's face seen through each of the individual square of glass. Bob pivot the object to have a better view of his friend. So hard to talk about. So hard to talk about. Bill pivot the object again to hide behind it. I's just a game. dumb, deceitful game. So I quit my He gets up.
BOB: Lost you religion, huh ?
BILL: He takes a big book on a shelf. There is a picture of Sigmund Freud on the cover. He puts the book back, and with his hand, makes a masturbation
BOB: I'm sorry, buddy. You gonna be in a lot of pain.
BILL: There is a distinctive absence of pain. I. I cannot feel the pain that I know that I'm supposed to be feeling right now. And I think I'm going crazy. We feel that Bill is ready to cry. I'm lost, man, I think I'm going crazy. He has tears in his eyes.
BOB: You may be. Your mind may be shot.
BOB: . but I hope your body isn't.
BILL: Do I get to warm up ?
BOB: Yeah !. Two mile any pace you like. And then. They mount their bicycles. . let's do ten. They are now on the road in front of Bob's residence.
BILL: Ten ?
BOB: Too much for you, huh ?
BILL: I dunno. I was thinking of maybe twenty. He starts full speed. They are now on a minor dirt road. We can see Bob's house in the Gees ! Billy ! You'll never change. Why don't we just drop our pants to see who's got the bigger dick, and then we can go back and have a nice civilized breakfast ?
BOB: Gees ! Billy ! You'll never change. Why don't we just drop our pants to see who's got the bigger dick, and then we can go back and have a nice civilized breakfast ?
BILL: Wouldn't be civilized.
BOB: Why ?
BILL: You'll be sulking !
BOB: They are going uphill. He slows down. Bob stops and dismounts his bike.
BILL: What ?
BOB: What was that ?. What the hell was that ?. Bill dismounts his bike. Bob gets his bike upside down and sets it upright standing on the saddle and the handlebar. He checks the chain. Bill is leaning on his bike.
BILL: What are you afraid of ?
BOB: I got a gear slip, here somewhere.
BILL: That's not what I meant. What with the security systems, the security gates, looking over your shoulder.
BOB: I've been getting some threats.
BILL: What do you mean ?. Death threats ?
BOB: Pretty sure it's somebody in the Monday night group, I just don't know who.
BILL: Monday night as in last night ?
BOB: Yeah !. I was hoping that maybe with your tuning fork that you might have a hunch.
BILL: No. No hunch, Bob. What make you think it's somebody in the group ? Bob spins the pedals to check the chain.
BOB: Only about a dozen things. I's been going on for a couple of months now. It's funny how it gets you after a while.
BILL: Call the cops ?.
BOB: He puts his bike back on the wheels. They put their sunglasses on.
BILL: He laughs.
BOB: Yeah ! Probably, it'll just blow over.
BILL: Yeah !
BOB: How about you ?
BILL: About me. what ? We see them going very fast on the minor dirt road. A horse rider rides near them. What would you give a suicidal patient that's got everything ? They ride even faster while clowning, like riding on the back Parachute, I heard it already.
BOB: Parachute, I heard it already.
BILL: Out here already, huh ?
BOB: Come on, old timer !.
BILL: Oh, shit ! You may have to. You may have to carry me in. They hold each other by the waist and the shoulders.
BOB: You know you lose a lot more gracefully than you used to.
BILL: Yeah ! Well, you know. Practice and all. Hey ! How about that : "Learning to loose" by Doctor Bill Capa ! A beep and the second gate gets open.
BOB: Got a ring to it !
BILL: They are making those seats smaller, huh ? Whoo ! They enter the residence. Bill is massaging his buttocks.
BOB: See you next week. All right ? He escorts his patient to the door. Enter Barbara, Bob's I'm going now. You want me to lock on the way out ?
BARBARA: I'm going now. You want me to lock on the way out ?
BOB: That'll be great, Barbara. She gets out. Bob takes his jacket off and sets it on a clothes valet. He then stops by the shelves behind his desk and starts the music : a concerto for piano and orchestra. He sits behind his desk, and starts writing in a large notebook. He hears a strange noise, and raises his head. He puts his pen down, open a drawer and takes his revolver out. A draught flips the pages of his notebook. He seems to feel better, puts the revolver back and closes the drawer. Then he closes the notebook, takes it and goes to the shelves. He seems to be looking for something, and feels worried not to find it. He gets out of his workroom.
BOB: Barbara ?. He comes back into the meeting room. When he enters the room, the light is suddenly switched off. He crosses the meeting room. We can hear someone chuckling, and we can see a shadow through the glass on the door.
BOB: No. Nooooo !. Why ? The man stabs him several times. Bob is covered with blood. He falls on a glass door. The glass is shattered. Bob falls on his back. A big piece of glass goes through him and comes out of his stomach. Through the window, we can see an helicopter flying over Los Angeles.
THE HOOKER: Man, I didn't do nothing. Oh, please. You know, you're very cute. I love you.
HECTOR: You're Capa ?
BILL: Yes, I'm Doctor Capa.
HECTOR: He closes the door, puts his file on the desk and sits down behind the desk.
BILL: I read something about sessions on Mondays. Tell me about this Monday group.
HECTOR: I read something about sessions on Mondays. Tell me about this Monday group.
BILL: There's five patients in the group. I Can't really remember their names right now.
HECTOR: He taps his head with his right hand, a gesture meaning mental illness. He has a telephone number scribbled on the palm of his
BILL: No. Four neurotics of varying degrees and one killer. At least, that's what Bob thought.
HECTOR: Bob Moore ?
BILL: Good. Yes, Bob Moore.
HECTOR: Four men and one woman.
BILL: And you sat in one of these sessions, right ?
HECTOR: And you sat in one of these sessions, right ?
BILL: Yes, I did.
HECTOR: So, who did it ? Anderson enters the room behind Bill, carrying a plastic cup. Hey-hey-hey-hey. ! Anderson ! This is civilization, man. What do think this is ?. Your bedroom ?. Anderson gives Bill the cup. Damn. Knock. Knock. Don't. don't come into my office like that, bro. Hey ! Anderson leaves the room and closes the door. It's third world thing !. Where were we ?.
BILL: He blows on the cup.
HECTOR: But you're a professional like me. You gotta have some kind of suspicion.
BILL: I really don't have a clue. I'd like to help you, but even if I could, there is an issue of confidentiality.
HECTOR: Confidentiality ?.
BILL: He laughs and gets up.
HECTOR: He laughs and gets up.
BILL: Similar to the Miranda oath.
HECTOR: He sits down on the desk, facing Bill. He puts a finger on his lips.
BILL: Oh, look ! I'm sorry I can't help you. I've only been in Los Angeles four days.
HECTOR: You're sleeping at that. dead guy's house, aren't you ?
BILL: Maybe something will come to you in the night, you know, like dreams and shit. But. what happens to patients in a situation like this ?
HECTOR: Maybe something will come to you in the night, you know, like dreams and shit. But. what happens to patients in a situation like this ?
BILL: Usually a colleague will offer to take over the group. continue the treatment.
HECTOR: He gets up. We see his pistol hooked on the back of his belt. He mimes vultures walking.
BILL: Why not ?
HECTOR: Why not ?
BILL: Because I really can't handle that right now.
HECTOR: Sure you can !. Come on !. You've been a week in L.A. and you already have you own private screwing farm. He sits back on the edge of the desk. How bad can that be ?. That's a great career move.. Where were you at the time of the killing, Capa ?
BILL: He pauses before answering.
HECTOR: You had to think about that ?
BILL: Jesus Christ !. Are you going to arrest me, Lieutenant Martinez ?
HECTOR: Hey ! You want a lawyer ?
BILL: Do I need a lawyer ?
HECTOR: You're in L.A. Everybody needs a lawyer. He goes back to his seat behind the desk, and conspicuously shows his back to Bill. All right !. You can go home now, take a shower. He turns back to Bill. And keep your mouth shut. The only thing that I got going for me is that few people know what happened, and I don't want the press fucking things up.
BILL: All right !. All right !. Hold on ! He walks in the corridor, looking for the buzzer. He arrives into the main hall, near the video security device. On the wall near the TV set, two large paintings showing enlarged footprints. On the screen, we see Hector's face.
BILL: Oh shit !
HECTOR: Capa !. Capa !. Are you there ? Bill takes the remote control.
BILL: How is it going ?
HECTOR: How is it going ?
BILL: What do you want ?
HECTOR: I brought the victim's car back and I got to search the BOB'S RESIDENCE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY You got a search warrant ?
BILL: You got a search warrant ?
HECTOR: What is it with you ? Don't you want me to find out who killed your friend ?. No, I don't have a warrant.
BILL: All right. Come on in.
HECTOR: Open the gate.
BILL: Yeah. Right. How's that ?
HECTOR: You got the sprinklers on !
BILL: How about that ? Bill taps on the remote control. We hear a beep. On the TV set, we see Hector taking his jacket off.
BILL: Jill. his wife. his ex-wife.
HECTOR: Nice bush ! Bill closes the album, takes it from Hector's hands and gets up. He turns to look at Hector.
BILL: I'll tell you said so. He walks to the shelves and put the album back where it was found. He looks at Hector. I'm sure it will mean a lot to her.
HECTOR: Check this fucking bed ! He goes around the bed and sits next to the sculpture, which he keeps on fondling. Damn !. Everybody is having fun but me, goddammit ! Hector opens a drawer, and takes a revolver out of it. He holds it with his pen stuck into the trigger ring.
BILL: I do not like guns. Hector puts the revolver back in the drawer.
HECTOR: You prefer knives ?
HECTOR: I need you to do me a favor.
BILL: What's that ? They are crossing the garden. Hector is still in shirtsleeves and has some papers in his hand.
HECTOR: I want you to tell the group about Moore's death.
BILL: Me ?.
HECTOR: Why ?
BILL: Why ?
HECTOR: Well, maybe one of them won't come in, or maybe they will all come in, but then you would be able to spot something I just can't handle it right now. OK ?.
BILL: I just can't handle it right now. OK ?.
HECTOR: I just had all the mess in his office cleaned up. Don't you want to help me find the killer ? Have a heart.
BILL: What does that mean?
HECTOR: If you don't tell them, I'll have to tell them. Am I the person to break the news to these people ? « Listen up, you fucking daffodils, your shrink is dead. They have reached the main gate. Hector gets out and Bill presses a switch. The gate starts sliding between him and Hector. Which means that all the time, effort and love you put in this relationship is wasted. You've got to remain as fucked up as you are or get worse. »
BILL: You are one sinister piece of work. All right, I'll do it.
HECTOR: It's better if you do it.
BILL: No, you listen to me. You don't understand, Gene. Don't lie, just give the family what it wants. No. No, you don't We see Bill from the back. In the rear-view mirror of the car, we see another convertible vehicle approaching with also its roof open. A young girl is driving. She comes a bit too fast and bumps into the back of Bill's car. Bill jumps and stops his car. I have to call you back. Christ ! He puts the telephone back on his hook and gets out of the car. He goes to Rose's car. She is leaning on the steering wheel. Hey !. You're right ?. Hey !. He opens the door. She stands back. She is wearing a large beige Why me ?. Hi !. I'm Rose.
ROSE: Why me ?. Hi !. I'm Rose.
BILL: Hi, Rose !. I't nice to run into me like this !. I'm Bill He goes away from the car.
ROSE: I got no insurance. She gets out of her car. I know it's against the law and everything. She goes around her car, and looks at the damage. Don't bust my chops. I'll bring the money to you, if you just get an estimate. She stoops, picks up a piece of red plastic and gives it to Bill. OK ?. Just give me a break !
BILL: Got a pen ? Rose goes to her car and Bill throws the piece of red plastic away. Rose gets into her car, looks into her purse, and takes a small notebook and a pen. Bill takes them but hesitates before writing. Rose smiles mockingly.
ROSE: Oh, poor old brain can't remember its own phone number.
BILL: I just moved here. From New York. I wrote my address down, because I am not sure about this number, and how long I gonna be there, so maybe you can call me sometimes for the next couple of days.
ROSE: I will.
BILL: Bye ! He goes away from the car.
ROSE: Hey !. Don't you want my address ? Bill gets into his car.
BILL: You could lie. He starts his car.
BILL: Hi !. Who hasn't arrived yet ?
BUCK: He is standing up. He is wearing a white T-shirt and a grey sweater with a V-shaped collar.
RICHIE: He is wearing a grey sport jacket with a zipper and a striped T-
BILL: If it's all right, I'd rather wait till you're all here. She's always this late ?
CLARK: He is wearing a dark suit, very elegant. He is wiping his hand with a handkerchief.
SONDRA: She enters very rapidly through the corridor door. She seems very happy. She drops on the armchair next to Casey. She is wearing an very close-fitting overall, which is generously open on her throat. The top of the overall is very colorful and the bottom is black. On top of it, she is wearing a pink sport jacket.
CASEY: He is sitting in an armchair. He is wearing an grey collarless shirt and a black sleeveless vest.
BUCK: Christ, don't excite her !.
SONDRA: Where is Doctor Moore ?
BILL: There's something I want to tell you.
SONDRA: What's the matter ?
CASEY: Shhhh !.
SONDRA: I'm trying to pay attention. Shhh !
BILL: You should prepare yourself for bad news.
SONDRA: Why ?.
BILL: Bob's been killed.
SONDRA: Her face is distorted by the pain. She puts her hand in front of her mouth.
CASEY: What are you saying ?. What are you telling me ?
BILL: He was murdered.
CASEY: Sondra !.
BILL: He was locking up here late Friday night.
SONDRA: Here ?.
BILL: Yes, right here in the office.
BUCK: Was he shot. stabbed. beaten ?. Have they got a suspect. a motive ? Three days go by, and you don't call us.
BILL: It was easier if you were here together.
CASEY: He stands up. He gets more and more angry through the preceding reply.
BUCK: He has become very nervous too.
BILL: He was stabbed to death.
CLARK: How many times was he stabbed ?
SONDRA: She jumps up. She goes to Clark and hits him.
BILL: He takes Sondra very gently by the shoulders and brings her back to her seat.
SONDRA: Get your fucking hands off me.
BILL: It's OK. It's OK !
CASEY: It doesn't make sense to me.
BILL: Many times, Clark. More than thirty. It's all I can tell It wasn't a thief, I can tell you that right now.
CASEY: It wasn't a thief, I can tell you that right now.
CLARK: I agree.
CASEY: He is still very nervous.
SONDRA: She is crying.
CASEY: I'm saying, Sondra, that you really, really have to hate a person to stab him that many times. You're a shrink, right ? You know what kind of power people hand over a shrink. Or maybe sometimes, they hand even more than they want to.
CLARK: That is absolutely correct. A thief would not stick around and stab someone thirty times.
BUCK: He sits down.
SONDRA: It's not the robbery he's an expert on, it's the rage.
RICHIE: He has seated himself behind Sondra and puts his hand on her
CASEY: I bet Doctor Capa has an idea.
BUCK: What does he mean ? Casey hits his forehead. Buck is almost crying.
BILL: He sits down. Casey sits down.
SONDRA: Maybe you should.
BILL: No. I can't do that. Not right now.
SONDRA: Why ?.
BILL: One reason is that I am more screwed up than you people I was just being obnoxious, and loud before. Anybody has a fucking Xanax ?
CASEY: I was just being obnoxious, and loud before. Anybody has a fucking Xanax ?
SONDRA: I have a librium.
BUCK: Stop with the drugs.
CASEY: It would be a good idea if you stayed.
BUCK: Bob isn't cold yet ?
CASEY: I mean, there'll be some connections. Right ?.
SONDRA: She gets up and sits down in front of Bill. She takes the cushion which was on the armchair and hugs it.
BILL: During the following reply, Richie comes and sits behind Sondra. He stops. He seems ready to cry.
CLARK: If my opinion counts for anything, I would like to ask : why it is you feel so inadequate for the task. Buck comes and sits next to Clark.
BUCK: Maybe he just don't like us.
BILL: No, that's not it, Buck.
BUCK: Why don't you step on something?
CLARK: You stop.
BILL: Six weeks ago, I spoke harshly to a patient. And she committed suicide. Right in front of me. Clark puts his handkerchief on his lips. Perhaps she would have done this, anyway. That's what my colleagues say. But I don't know.
SONDRA: Oh, I'm sorry.
BILL: He is crying with big tears. Clark wipes his face again with his handkerchief. He seems to be extremely moved.
BUCK: I think I do.
RICHIE: M. me too.
CASEY: Why don't you give us a try for a month.
CLARK: Listen, if you need anything, any free legal advice, to help you wrap up Bob's affair, please don't hesitate to call me. I'm not with anyone right now. I'll be more than happy to help you in anyway. Clark gives his business card to Bill, who takes it. Then he gives him a kleenex. Bill wipes his eyes.
BILL: Thank you. We see, through the window, light-beams crossing in the sky.
HECTOR: You bring me a confession ?
BILL: Well, you win some, you lose some, right Capa ?
HECTOR: Well, you win some, you lose some, right Capa ?
BILL: Listen, maybe it was not one of the group
HECTOR: Oh no. he's beginning to like them already. Your friend Bob Moore deserves a lot more loyalty than this.
BILL: Hey. Why. Why are we staying here shouting at each other for ? What's this place ?
HECTOR: I used to work in narcotics. They used to come here a lot. I probably fucked and, or arrested half of these people's parents. It's a nice place. I like it.
BILL: Makes sense. Look, I'm sorry I haven't got anything for you. I'll see you around. Bill gets up and leaves the bar. Hector gets up behind him and follows him. They meet back in the street.
HECTOR: So, that's it, hey ?
BILL: Anything you want to tell me ?. They put back their jackets.
HECTOR: Anything you want to tell me ?. They put back their jackets.
BILL: VOICE OF THE CAR VALET Yeah, it's a four-door, man ! Hector and Bill are walking slowly in front of the bar.
NO: VOICE OF THE CAR VALET Yeah, it's a four-door, man ! Hector and Bill are walking slowly in front of the bar.
HECTOR: So you better shut the group down.
BILL: Who say I hadn't ?
HECTOR: Oh, have you or haven't you ?
BILL: They ask me to take over the group. I couldn't say no.
HECTOR: Ha ! Ha !. I figured. You're gonna do real well in this town. Shut the fucker down.
BILL: Stop. You sent me over there.
HECTOR: No, I send you there to convey a piece of bad news. A pedestrian bumps into Hector. Will you give me a break, will you, man !. Hector lays the man on the hood of a car and frisks him. I didn't send you there to go trolling for business.
BILL: Come on ! Hector lets the man go and starts walking again with Bill near the You told me you couldn't handle it.
HECTOR: You told me you couldn't handle it.
BILL: Well, it turns out that I handle it now.
HECTOR: You stick you dick in a barrel full of barracudas once. Maybe you won't lose it. You leave it in there, it's gonna get shewed up at the root. They stop walking.
BILL: I appreciate your concern for my dick, Hector, thank you.
HECTOR: I am being really nice, full of concern for your safety, in case it's one of them, hey ? Shut it down, OK ?.
BILL: No. I can't do that.
HECTOR: He yells.
BILL: These sudden irrational outbursts, Hector. Did they begin in childhood or in puberty?
HECTOR: Get out of my face.
BILL: Am I in your face ? What an interesting choice of words ! Would you like me in your face ? You're married, Hector ?. If you wanna deal with any of these problems, I'll give you special rates. Bill has moved slightly away from Hector and turns his back to Special rates ?. Ha ! ha !. What, like frequent flyer miles ?. Hector mime something ( or someone ) crashing on the ground. Then he walks around his car. Let me ask you something. Are you really color-blind, or is that some shit you feed them with so they feel sorry for you ?
HECTOR: Special rates ?. Ha ! ha !. What, like frequent flyer miles ?. Hector mime something ( or someone ) crashing on the ground. Then he walks around his car. Let me ask you something. Are you really color-blind, or is that some shit you feed them with so they feel sorry for you ?
BILL: No, unfortunately I am color. Did you bug the office ?
HECTOR: Hey, for a shrink, you're pretty fucking dense. Hector gets in his car, while the valet is holding the door for him. He closes the door and the car moves away, leaving a pensive Bill on the sidewalk.
ROSE: Hello !
BILL: Who's there ? We see Rose entering through the keyhole-shaped door.
ROSE: Hi !. Remember me ?. Fender-bender !.
BILL: There she is, a little angel, dancing on the head of a pin. Rose gets down the few steps to the garden. She is wearing a light flowered summer dress.
ROSE: So. did you get that estimate ?
BILL: Waow !. Nice place you got here. It's a little cold. but it's kind of tasteful, right ?
ROSE: Waow !. Nice place you got here. It's a little cold. but it's kind of tasteful, right ?
BILL: And wet !
ROSE: You too, I guess.
BILL: Cold or tasteful ?
ROSE: So. Are we eating in here, or you take me out ?. Bill bursts laughing.
ROSE: You can't ? . At all ?. Waow !.
ROSE: Not even a shade of pink ?. Can't tell me if it's smeared or not ?
BILL: I can't tell you if your eyes are bloodshed.
ROSE: Really !. That's sad !. You know what ?. In respect for your infirmity, I'm gonna give up wearing lipstick. Close-up on Rose putting her lipstick in her glass of water. There is something about me that I bet you find a little strange. Right ? In several shots during this dialogue, we see Bill seated in front of a mirror wall and Rose's reflection in the mirror behind Bill's What is that ?
BILL: What is that ?
ROSE: Well, I haven't asked you what you do.
BILL: That's right. You showed a remarkable restraint.
ROSE: Well, it's because I'd rather guess. You know, I actually get upset if someone tries to tell me before I can. figure it out for myself, you know ?
BILL: But what if I am ashamed of what I do.
ROSE: Why. Why should you be ashamed of being a shrink.
BILL: Who told you I was a shrink ?
ROSE: Well. Are you ?
BILL: How did you know ?
ROSE: The way you looked at me, you know ?
BILL: How I look at you ?
ROSE: You. you have this kindness in your eyes. But I think you're using it to keep me away. You know, you're trying to play safe. You're trying to think of a case instead of thinking of a female.
BILL: So, you have a tuning fork too.
ROSE: I guess we have a lot in common.
BILL: We seem to be playing the same game.
ROSE: Why do you say I'm playing a game?
BILL: Because you're the fantasy girl, aren't you? Quicksilver? The face glimpsed across a crowded room?
ROSE: Yeah, that's. That's exactly what I am.
BILL: You'll be whatever they want you to be. no substance, no rules. Light as air. So your feet never have to touch those burning hot coals the rest of us walk around on.
ROSE: Yeah. Sort of like. not seeing red?
BILL: Yeah, sort of like that.
ROSE: I was afraid during dinner that you had taken a room here. and I might have to decide whether or not to go up with you.
BILL: Yes, but that was part of my plan. I mean, I wanted to. Bill gives a ticket to the car valet. Thank you.
ROSE: Oh, I need a taxi. Taxi !
BILL: No, hey, hey. Wait, wait, wait. What are you being so tough for ?
ROSE: I'm just beginning to think that maybe I'Il. Rose kisses Bill very tenderly, and even with some spirit. While kissing, Bill moves Rose to a more discreet place near the entrance. He strokes her shoulder and gets the strap of her dress a bit down. Then he moves up the bottom of her dress to stroke her VOICE OF THE VALET Cab's here ! Yo, who called a taxi ?
VOICE OVER: Cab's here ! Yo, who called a taxi ?
BILL: I am thinking you should just let me take you home and forget about this stupid taxi.
ROSE: Rose walks to her waiting cab. She smiles and looks at Bill's crotch.
BILL: Give me your phone number and address.
ROSE: Why? You want to make me fall to earth and burn my feet ? Whatever happened to quicksilver and light as air? She opens the cab's door and climbs inside. She waves to Bill.
BILL: She floats away on her sweet young legs. Waves to him once. Drives away without a backward glance. Rose closes the door and the cabs moves away.
DALE: Richie is what he is.
BILL: What exactly is that?
DALE: He was born back of a van going up Route 5 to a Grateful Dead concert. The first sound he ever heard was "Beat It On Down The Line." They both laugh.
BILL: Well, it could be worse.
DALE: Not much.
BILL: How long have you been his guardian?
DALE: Since he was nine or ten. But I've always taken care of So, what can I do for you ?
BILL: So, what can I do for you ?
DALE: Um, I was hoping you would help me. get Richie out of therapy. Look, I know I'm just his brother, but I've been like a mother and a father to him. Bill takes his glasses off. and I know I can get overprotective, but.
BILL: Why would you want to take Richie out of therapy now ?
DALE: What Richie needs is normalcy.
BILL: Well, normalcy. Bill gets up and keeps on talking while walking in the room. Normalcy can be interpreted in a lot of different ways.
DALE: Richie has practically been raised by the state. Bill sits back. . the social workers, psychiatrists. forcing him into this, um, psycho-servitude. He is the sweetest kid you'll ever meet, but he thinks of himself as handicapped. It just isn't right.
BILL: Well, he's got legal problems. Richie was sentenced by the court to mandatory treatment.
DALE: Every kid gets into trouble. And that's why I need you to help get him out.
BILL: You know, Dale, it's hard to tell when someone's feeling pain. but I want you to know.
DALE: If Richie feels pain. then I feel pain. Pretty much in tune with him. I just wish you'd give us a chance.
BILL: Let me check out Richie's status. Then, uh, I'll give probation a call. Bill gets up.
DALE: Oh, thanks. Thanks, Dr. Capa. Dale gets up and shakes Bill's hand. I really appreciate it.
BILL: You're welcome, Dale. You either lift weights or work with your hands.
DALE: Yeah, uh, I make furniture.
BILL: Bill sits back, but not Dale.
DALE: Yeah, I made this desk for Bob, to remind him of New York.
BILL: No kidding.
DALE: We called it the Chrysler desk.
BILL: You ever see his bed ?
DALE: You ever see his bed ?
CASEY: I think I want to continue. We hear the crack of a whip. Since the shot is showing only Casey's head and chest, we don't see who is whipping him. You bitch ! Another whip crack. I called you a bitch ! Whip crack. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Whip crack. The tracking shot starts moving backwards, but with a larger angle. Whip crack. Casey's voice is softer. Medium long shot on the room. Oh! I'm sorry. Almost hysterical laugh.
BILL: Yelling to the driver. The car honks. We get a close-up of the driver when the car comes very close to Bill.
THE DRIVER: You idiot ! Bill looks at the departing car and notices a city worker blowing dead leaves on the bank of the road.
BILL: He yells to the city worker, but, with the loud noise of his power blower, the man does not hears him and remains concentrated on his Bill crawls back a little, then he eventually stands up. He crosses the road, and takes a big shovel in the pick-up truck. He crosses the road back. The snake is back in the mailbox. Bill hits the box very hard with the shovel. Snake and mail fall on the road. Bill laughs and throws the shovel on the side of the Bill stoops to pick up the letters scattered on the road. He looks at the envelopes. We see the snake disappearing through the grass on the side of the road. Bill, with his back to the road, is getting ready to enter the house. A car stops and honks. Bill turns around to face
HECTOR: Capa !
BILL: He comes back to the car. He looks very angry.
HECTOR: What did I do now ?
BILL: Somebody put a rattlesnake in the mailbox, Hector !
HECTOR: He laughs.
HECTOR: You scared the shit out of me outside.
BILL: Oh, I scared you, huh ? What the hell are you doing here ?
HECTOR: I could use some assistance, some of your professional I'm really flattered.
BILL: I'm really flattered.
HECTOR: Everyone in the group has an alibi. Except for Casey. He says he was alone in his loft.
BILL: Yeah ?
HECTOR: What does that mean ? He dries his arms with a dishcloth.
BILL: What does that mean ? He dries his arms with a dishcloth.
HECTOR: What do you make of Casey?
BILL: He's a good kid.
HECTOR: You're an asshole, Capa. Bill turns the water off, throws the dishcloth on the sink. Hector walks in the room while wiping his hands with another dishcloth.
BILL: Should we analyze that statement, Hector ?
HECTOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Come on. Who is our man ? Help me.
BILL: You're the cop. Figure it out. He gets out of the kitchen, followed by Hector.
HECTOR: You know what I think ? I think it was you. You've got the That's right.
BILL: That's right.
HECTOR: Yeah, I been talking to people who knew you both. Everyone says there was a weird competitive thing going between you. They have come to the hall where the security TV screens are located. They stop walking.
BILL: Yeah, that's right. There was. I admit it. He was on the way up. and I was on the way down.
HECTOR: He whistles, miming, with both hands, something crashing down.
BILL: I bet you've seen every episode of Columbo, huh? Sound of a buzz. The two men look at the security screen. Who is it? Bill taps on the remote control, and Rose appears on the screen.
ROSE: Hi. It's me, Rose. The old fender bender. Bill taps again on the remote control to open the gate, and Rose leaves the TV screen.
HECTOR: That's a very young girl to be going around. fending Bill puts the remote control down and follows Hector to the main BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY Hector is walking to the exit. As he reaches the bottom of the steps, Rose is going down. Bill, standing behind a low wall, looks at her coming.
BILL: Here she comes. Weightless, hanging from the sky. wearing a short dress of indeterminate color.
ROSE: It's red, poor thing.
BILL: Thank you. They kiss. Rose takes his hand.
ROSE: I was thinking. Maybe I should see a shrink.
BILL: I can recommend someone.
ROSE: I feel better already. Close-up on their kissing.
BILL: God, I missed you. They are now at the edge of the pool.
ROSE: This time you won't miss. They fall fully dressed in the pool. Underwater shot. They keep on kissing in the water. Bill takes her dress off. She wears nothing underneath. We can see a rose tattooed on her buttock. She slips Bill's short down to his ankles. We get a brief view of Bill's penis. Above water shot. They are now in the water up to their waists. Bill is kissing Rose's breasts. Underwater shot. They are back underwater. Bill is kissing Rose's legs, and moves slowly up to her crotch. She has trimmed pubic hair, but with some left. Still kissing, Bill moves up along her stomach and reaches hers breasts, which he kisses greedily. Above water shot. Bill is leaning his back against the edge of the pool. Rose is lying on him. They are still in the water up to their waists. Underwater shot. Rose is kissing Bill's chest et goes slowly down his stomach, then along one of his legs. We get another brief view of Bill's penis. We notice that it is not erected ( certainly to avoid being X-rated ).
ROSE: Still holding the bedposts. She speaks with a breathless voice. She turns around to face him.
BILL: Right now ?
ROSE: BOB'S RESIDENCE - DINING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT Through the window, we notice that the night has fallen. Bill, seated behind the table, is wearing brown suit and necktie, very elegant. On the table, wine and water glasses and two chandeliers, with a lighted candle. In front of Bill, a plate with food. Rose enters the field, carrying another plate, which she sets on the other side of the table. that Rose is naked.
ROSE: You're not eating. Don't you like my food?
BILL: I'd like your food five inches to the left.
ROSE: Rose moves the plate to her left, showing her naked body though the glass table.
BILL: Yeah, okay.
ROSE: I think it's ready. She stands up laughing. Fade out on the next scene.
THE ARCHIVIST: It's a miracle. I found it. She starts walking between two rows of shelves. Bill follows her, putting his glasses on. Here he is. Richie Dexter. Legal guardian: Dale Dexter. That's his brother. Kids were put under care, let's see, about six years ago.
BILL: He tries to read above her shoulder.
THE ARCHIVIST: Abandonment, abuse. The children were assigned to a, uh. She flips a page in the file. Dr. Niedelmeyer in Pasadena. A child psychiatrist. Richie was 12. Bill tries to come back to the preceding page, but the archivist looks angrily at him, silently meaning he is going a bit too far. No foster parents. Looks like the doctor retired a couple years after that. Then we lost track of the kids until What do you mean, "lost track" of them?
BILL: What do you mean, "lost track" of them?
THE ARCHIVIST: She closes the file, and keeps on walking between the rows of shelves, followed by Bill.
BONNIE: Nobody's like your ex-husband!
SONDRA: That's for sure. That's for sure. Bonnie takes one of the parcel, a large white box. Okay, okay, okay.
BONNIE: She takes a white dress out of the box. For the first time, we see a close-up of her face, and we discover she is Rose, different hairdo, a lot of almost vulgar make-up, but still, she is Rose.
SONDRA: I know. It's incredible. Look at all these bags.
ROSE: She shamelessly takes off the dress, and, as she wears no bra, she stands naked, save for her panties, in front of Sondra. She laughs. Sondra freezes watching the naked body of her friend.
ROSE: Oh ! Oh ! Lush ! She has put the white dress on. What do you think?
SONDRA: She seems very moved.
ROSE: You sure ?
SONDRA: Oh, yeah.
ROSE: Come zip me up.
SONDRA: Okay. Okay. She gets up from the bed to zip up Rose's dress. Oh, this is so tight.
ROSE: Thank you.
SONDRA: I need to find a new husband. They both laugh. Sondra goes back sitting on the bed and looking through the parcels. I need some more money.
ROSE: Oh, men. Who needs them ? Have you seen my earrings anywhere ?
SONDRA: She waves the earrings in front of Rose's face.
ROSE: Oh, sweet ! Rose takes off the large rings she is wearing to replace them by the earrings Sondra just gave her. She sighs. Oh, my God. I love these. Aren't they pretty ?
SONDRA: They're so gorgeous, yes.
ROSE: Try yours on.
SONDRA: Sondra doesn't move, feeling very embarrassed by the idea of undressing in front of her friend. She eventually gets up, an starts taking off the belt from her suit. Rose is putting her jacket on. A long silence : Sondra looks more and more embarrassed. She snickers stupidly. Rose looks at her without really understanding what's going on.
ROSE: What now ? Sondra, what ?
SONDRA: She sits back on the bed.
ROSE: 'Cause. the way you're looking at me.
SONDRA: 'Cause. the way you're looking at me.
ROSE: Sondra. Do men look at you like that ?
SONDRA: No. Yes. But it's different.
ROSE: She bends to her. The phone rings. Rose starts laughing.
SONDRA: She takes the phone. She seems embarrassed. Rose is making funny faces. She stammers a little. She goes to the window and moves the curtain aside. We see Bob's car in the street.
SONDRA'S VOICE: Bill hangs up his car phone.
ROSE: She is looking at herself in the full-length mirror.
SONDRA: That's my analyst ! He's coming to visit me.
ROSE: When she hears Sondra's last reply, Rose's carefree face becomes very anxious.
SONDRA: Oh, my God. He's coming over.
ROSE: Sondra, thanks. Oh, thanks a lot !
SONDRA: What's the matter ? What ?
ROSE: Nothing ! She starts gathering her belongings. If you don't know, I thought we were just going to have a nice afternoon together. maybe have dinner.
SONDRA: She puts the telephone back on its stand and takes Rose's arm.
ROSE: She closes her purse and puts it over her shoulder.
SONDRA: I don't.
ROSE: Nobody appreciates you the way that I do. People just use you, and you don't even see it.
SONDRA: Oh, don't be upset. She turns to Rose to look at her face.
ROSE: Rose kisses Sondra tenderly on the lips. She leaves the room. Sondra seems very disturbed by the kiss. She puts her hands on her chest.
SONDRA: Oh, my God.
BILL: Hi, Sondra. Someone just let me in.
SONDRA: I didn't just walk in on my own.
BILL: I didn't just walk in on my own.
SONDRA: She closes the front door, which had remained open.
BILL: Bonnie. Yes.
SONDRA: Please, come in.
BILL: Thank you very much. Thank you. He enters the sitting-room, followed by Sondra. This is a really lovely place you have here. Yeah. He sits on a cushions-covered sofa.
SONDRA: You think so? Thank you. She sits on a small sofa without back.
BILL: A lot of nice, nice things. A lot of nice art.
SONDRA: She simpers a little.
BILL: Well, I feel like I have so much. so much catching up to do with all of you. And I know that you're very close with Richie. And I was wondering if you could tell me anything that might help me. understand him a little better.
SONDRA: Richie's. my little baby.
BILL: His brother Dale thinks that your "little baby". should be taken out of therapy.
SONDRA: That's insane!
BILL: He gets up. He goes to the window and looks at the children playing in a park.
SONDRA: That Dale is a dangerous bastard.
BILL: But he obviously seems to care for Richie a great deal. There's a big gap in Richie's life up until about a year ago. Did he ever mention a Dr. Niedelmeyer to you ?
SONDRA: I don't have much to tell. Richie's okay. He's sweet. Did you know that he was. molested as a child ? She has tears in her eyes.
BILL: No, I didn't know that. He comes back to her. It's sticking out all over. He sits on the bench of the piano.
SONDRA: It's fashionable. She laughs nervously. I mean, it pays well. At least, you know, you can write a book, go on Oprah.
BILL: That was quite a show he gave us in group. You think Richie has a violent streak ?
SONDRA: She sighs. She gets up.
BILL: You really think that I don't care about Richie ?
SONDRA: She gets upset.
BILL: Clark ?
SONDRA: She gets more and more upset. She sits back. Bill has been listening to her outburst without immediately. Her angry face becomes suddenly softer. She gets up and sniffs a bit. She goes to the front door and opens it to a very muscular young man wearing a sleeveless T-shirt.
BILL: Chris just nods his head. Bill gets out. As soon as the door is closes, Sondra literally jumps in Chris' arms, and starts giggling.
SONDRA: I don't feel like lifting weights today.
CHRIS: Let's do something else. She bursts laughing. Through the low window, we see Bill going down the stairs to the street. He stops for two seconds to look at the tender couple !
SONDRA: Let's do something else. She bursts laughing. Through the low window, we see Bill going down the stairs to the street. He stops for two seconds to look at the tender couple !
BILL: Hey! Is this Dale Dexter's shop here? One of the men nods and shows the main door to Bill.
BILL: Excuse me. The man stands up and puts down the piece he was welding. He raises his mask : It's Dale.
DALE: Hello. Did you go to the house?
BILL: Yeah. Nobody was home. I would have phoned a. Dale shuts his blowtorch off. I would have phone ahead, but, uh, I don't have your phone number in our file.
DALE: He takes off his mask, then his protection gloves.
BILL: After Dr. Niedelmeyer, did Richie get another psychiatrist ?
DALE: No. No, we moved. Dale goes around a huge, geometrically shaped, metallic structure. Richie went to school. Everything was fine.
BILL: Well. that's the problem, Dale. I look at Richie, and I don't see that everything is fine. I see a kid that's on the brink.
DALE: He starts working on the metallic structure, but stops to look at
BILL: What's the bullet ?
DALE: Whatever it was, I got him away. He has taken protection glasses to work.
BILL: You want to talk about that ?
DALE: No. I want you to stop trying to tear off the scabs. Let the demons rest. You dig around in Richie's head, he's gonna blow up in your face.
BILL: You think he's violent ?
DALE: Not with me.
BILL: I think you're making a mistake, Dale. This is not the time to take Richie out of therapy. If you don't like me, let's get him someone else.
DALE: Jesus Christ. One of you is the same as another.
BILL: NIEDELMEYER'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY Bill gets out of his car. He is wearing light-colored pants, a shirt, and a very elegant leather jacket. He walks up a few steps toward the house. of the house. Above the door, two similar faces are carved in the stone. Probably Doctor Niedelmeyer's face.
BILL: Mrs. Niedelmeyer?
EDITH: Hi, I'm Bill Capa. I'm a doctor. I tracked you down through the Psychiatric Institute.
BILL: Hi, I'm Bill Capa. I'm a doctor. I tracked you down through the Psychiatric Institute.
EDITH: How very enterprising of you. She slams the panel shut. A few seconds, then she opens the door.
BILL: Actually, I was wondering if I could speak to Dr. My husband died last year. If it makes you feel better, he suffered a lot. Well, anyway, it made me feel better.
EDITH: My husband died last year. If it makes you feel better, he suffered a lot. Well, anyway, it made me feel better.
BILL: I'm treating a young man that was a patient. of Dr. Niedelmeyer's when he was a child. His name is Richie Why don't you leave me alone ?
EDITH: Why don't you leave me alone ?
BILL: If I could just ask you a few questions.
EDITH: You get out of here before I call the police ! She angrily slams the door shut.
BILL: Just a few questions. Mrs. Niedelmeyer.
EDITH: Voice over through the door. Bill sighs, then walks away from the door. The camera moves above the door and ends up on a close-up of Niedelmeyer's carved face, who seems to sneer at Bill.
CLARK: Fifty-eight. Now, if I'm not mistaken. last week there were 59 books on the shelf and this week there are only 58 books on the shelf somehow.
BUCK: Clark. what's the ashtray situation ? Sondra sits down and Casey sits in another armchair.
CLARK: Three. Not four, as recommended. There are three chairs and five assorted sofas.
BUCK: Who cares ?
BILL: He just came in and is standing by the window. He is wearing his glasses, jeans, open shirt and a light grey jacket. He turns around to speak to the group.
BUCK: Finishing a sentence the beginning of which was not
BILL: Today I'd like to focus on a most enlightening. and challenging topic.
SONDRA: She is - a bit lasciviously - sprawled in her armchair. He has seated himself in the hand-shaped armchair.
BILL: More or less. You see, the primary romantic relationship. in our life is often a symptom of our illness. He has seated himself in the hand-shaped armchair.
CASEY: Glad I wore my rubber pants. Buck snickers.
BILL: We keep making the same neurotic choices over and over every time we choose a new mate. So. If you had a magic wand. if you, uh, had a wish list. and could change your partner. Sondra, how would you make them different ? What's wrong ? What's missing ?
SONDRA: Now ?
BILL: You need a minute to think about it ?
CLARK: She's totally forgot her Rolodex. Casey snickers. Sorry, sorry.
SONDRA: Well, I don't have an attachment in my life right now. The last one sort of went to pieces. If you enjoy sex. A man thinks you're doing it with everybody.
BILL: He was jealous. He gets ups, walks to a cupboard, opens its door and takes a cup.
SONDRA: That's right. And I was as good as gold.
BILL: Well, there's a good chance that he was the one that was sleeping around. and projecting his fantasies and desires onto you.
SONDRA: This guy had a major projection, and he couldn't keep it in his pants. The whole group laughs. Bill smiles while pouring himself a Anyway, I do have this girlfriend. She really makes me laugh. A wish list. I wish. she was a guy.
SONDRA: Anyway, I do have this girlfriend. She really makes me laugh. A wish list. I wish. she was a guy.
BILL: He comes back with his cup in his hand.
CASEY: He is playing with a small statue of a monkey who looks at a skull.. He waits a few seconds, and puts the statue down before He smiles.
BUCK: He smiles.
CASEY: That's right, Buck. See, but this is where the problem comes in. It's what you see beneath the skin. when you study somebody endlessly, the way an artist does. I see a transcendental beauty there. beyond anything I could ever, ever imagine.
BILL: How does this woman feel about you?
CASEY: She thinks I'm the living end because I've got talent. But, I mean, what's talent ? Kick a garbage can. starving artists crawl out, right ? But there's only one, unique her. And, uh, I think it's love, you know ? And, um. I don't know what to do about that. He is suddenly moved on the verge of tears.
BILL: Do you think she loves you ?
CASEY: No. No.
BILL: Do you care, Casey ?
CASEY: I don't know. I don't know.
BUCK: He's a romantic. He loves the suffering.
CASEY: Maybe being who I am. I have no choice.
BILL: Very good, Casey. That's good stuff.
SONDRA: I agree.
BILL: Buck, what do you got?
BUCK: He jumps.
BILL: It's not a contest.
BUCK: He lights a cigarette. Casey puts his foot on the ashtray to prevent Buck from using it. He gets up. He sits on a small armchair by a glass table with an ashtray on He picks up the ashtray and moves to sit in a more comfortable
BILL: He has taken his glasses off.
BUCK: She doesn't mind the gray, you know. Bill smiles. She's fragile. you know ? It's like she's running through my fingers. Two people I loved died. I never thought that I could feel anything.
BILL: Good, Buck. Richie. How 'bout you ?
RICHIE: He is playing with the statue of the monkey.
BILL: Okay. You want to talk about him?
RICHIE: H-He worries a-a lot about me. And he l-loves me. But l. I wish he didn't. love me so m. so much sometimes. I wish l-I had more of a l-life. He puts the statue down and gets up. And I know that everyone h-here thinks that I'm gay. but I'm-I'm not. A-And I don't want to be. Richie opens the cupboard, takes a can of Pepsi and opens it.
BILL: What would you like to be ?
RICHIE: I'd like t-to be a w-woman.
BILL: Have you seen a doctor ?
RICHIE: So the next step is the chop.
BUCK: So the next step is the chop.
BILL: He cuts him very curtly.
RICHIE: Very good. Hi, Clark. What would you change about your partner ?
BILL: Very good. Hi, Clark. What would you change about your partner ?
CLARK: He is manicuring with his handkerchief.
SONDRA: Excuse me. You think you're gonna pass today ? Don't you think that's kind of a betrayal to the rest of the group ? I mean, we're all sitting here sharing our most intimate thoughts. and you're just gonna pass today ?
CLARK: Well, Sondra, I have my little problems. but I don't s- see how it's your business.
SONDRA: Your "little problems" ?
CLARK: To decide when I'm gonna share in group and not.
SONDRA: Ah, I see. You're smiling. Is that a smile ? You think this is funny ? She gets up from her armchair. Look at you. Just look at you. Look at your hair. Buck snickers. Who do you think you are ? Huh ? You think you're God's gift to women ? Let me tell you something. You are nothing. Nothing but a shallow, rigid. self-protective, anal coward ! And I'll tell you what your little fucking problems are.
CLARK: He gets ups, looking angry. He walks nervously to the door. Sondra remains standing, looking a bit embarrassed.
BUCK: He snickers.
CLARK: He slams furiously the door.
CASEY: Is this what you call "treatment failure" ? Buck snickers.
BILL: Well, it's not a total loss. He left without counting He puts down the file he was holding in his hand.
CHILDREN: Come on !. Hey, right here !. Hit it ! Bob's car arrives in the street. The children moves away to let it pass. While Bill is parking the car, we hear, in voice over, the beginning of the conversation between Bill and Clark. Bill is wearing a light-colored shirt and beige pants.
CLARK: Voice over.
BILL: So you were fired.
CLARK: He takes off his sunglasses and gets regular glasses from his shirt pocket. He is wearing disposable gloves. He puts his glasses on. He sits down and sighs.
BILL: You're screwing Sondra. aren't you?
CLARK: He puts his sunglasses in his shirt pocket, gets back up and start walking in the room. While talking, he sprays a liquid from a can on his plants.
BILL: It must be difficult to find someone. to measure up to your keen sense of order.
CLARK: I found someone. This woman thinks I'm messy. It's perfect. She comes, she goes. I don't even know she's been except for the faint smell of perfume.
BILL: Bill sneers.
CLARK: Take a look at this. He goes to a closet, from which he gets a paper bag. From the bags he takes out a tattered piece of clothing. Sondra tried to do this to my clothes. while I was wearing them; butcher knife in hand, screaming. The next day she came back, did this to my friend's dress. I'm terrified to go near the woman.
BILL: Hello ?. Hello, this is Bill Capa.
BILL: Does your mommy know you escaped from the straightjacket?
BILL: Goddamn it ! The red car bumps into him a second time, and looses part of its radiator grill. Third bumps. Bill is now out of the freeway and on a road The two vehicles are zigzagging between the others cars. Lot of Without warning, Bill turns on a side street on his right, and gets honked by the other cars. In spite of the very dangerous driving of Bill among the other cars, the red car keeps on following him. To follow Bill, the red car must take a vey sharp left turn, and bumps into a pickup truck full of kits and gears which fall on the The chase goes on. The red car is dented everywhere. It catches up with Bill, overtakes him, and bumps violently into Bill's car right side.
BILL: Fuck you ! The red car hits him on the right side twice in a row. Fuck you! Bill hits the red car on its left side and remains stuck to it. They move together, and Bill tries to bring the red car as close to the curb as possible. Get the. You. Ohh! Get the fuck. The red car is so close to the curb that it snatches away the open door of a parked car, and then knocks down the shopping caddie of a woman. Fortunately, the woman is able to move away, but all her shopping items are scattered on the pavement. The two car bump again into each other and arrive into a main road. When the red car wants to hit Bill's car again, Bill stands on the brake and the red car hits a big truck carrying cars. The truck honks and start zigzagging in the traffic. The last car on the upper bridge of the truck gets loose and falls on the road. Bill barely avoids it. Another car gets loose from the truck and causes a pile-up on the road. Bill zigzag out of the pile-up, and comes to a crossing with a railway. A train is approaching. The red car is still behind Bill. Bill brakes suddenly just after he has crossed the railway, then starts moving backwards. He hits the front of the red car, and keeps on moving backwards until he brings the red car on the railway itself. The train keeps on honking to move the cars away. Hey! You wanna die ! Huh ? You wanna die ? We see the driver of the train working madly on his brake, and looking to the red car with terror in his eyes. Just before the train reaches the crossing, Bill jumps his car forward and the red car quickly moves backward. Bill stops a few feet after the crossing to get his breath back. We see the train moving behind him.
HECTOR: I told you to stay the fuck out of it. Hey ! He kisses a passing Mexican woman. ? Como esta? Gracias.
BILL: I almost killed somebody out there. I mean, I had that car wedged right on the railroad tracks. Christ, man. It's a spooky feeling.
HECTOR: Like mainlining adrenalin, huh ? The rush is really something, huh ? See ? You're my kind of guy ! He takes him by the shoulders. They walk out of the field, and we see kids hitting a puppet hanging from a tree with a bat. The puppet is dressed in a cop's costume ! Hector and Bill come to the buffet table.
HECTOR: He gets a notebook from his pocket.
BILL: Yeah, sure. Can stand a little more pain. He takes a plate and starts helping himself at the buffet.
HECTOR: He takes a tray and starts reading. A woman is serving him from the buffet.
BILL: What'd she do ? Spill some wine on the rug ?
HECTOR: Then Sondra, she stabbed her father with a knife. and a fork. She must have been having dinner. One of her husbands died of unnatural causes.
BILL: Probably lost some body fluids.
HECTOR: And that, that kid Richie. That Richie's been busted for drugs. and Casey hates his father so much. he set the house on fire. So what do you think of that ?
BILL: I think it's good. They should learn to assert themselves. A very bright light, coming from above, suddenly shines on the bar. Hector and Bill raises their heads. We hear the engine of a helicopter and a voice coming from a loudspeaker.
THE VOICE: Hey, the house is surrounded. Come out with your hands up and your legs spread !
HECTOR: What the hell is this ? We see the helicopter and its powerful floodlight.
THE VOICE: Happy birthday, Hector ! Hey, Martinez, come on out ! We got something for you ! We get a better view of the helicopter. The word «police» is written on its fuselage. Two uniformed cops are standing on the right skid. One has a megaphone.
THE CROWD: For he's a jolly good fellow ! For he's a jolly good fellow ! Which nobody can deny ! Which nobody can deny ! Bill and Hector come in front of the crowd, and look up. For he's a jolly good fellow ! For he's a jolly good. ! People yell and whistle. One of the cops standing on the right skid is a woman. She gets her pants down and shows her buttocks to the crowd. Another cop, on the other skid, has another megaphone. People scream when they see the female cop's buttocks.
BILL: If I had known it was your birthday, I'd have come by Me too. The helicopter flies away. Large shot on the orchestra singing.
HECTOR: Me too. The helicopter flies away. Large shot on the orchestra singing.
ORCHESTRA: Estas son las mananitas. Que cantaba el Rey David. In a corner of the bar, Bill and Hector are eating quietly. Thunder rumbles and the first drops of rain start falling. The two men get up to find a shelter.
HECTOR: Oy. Oigan, ivengan a buscar el cake ! Better get your cake. Ivengan a buscar el cake ! People stop dancing and run to find a shelter.
A MAN: Everybody inside !
BILL: How come you didn't mention Buck ?
HECTOR: There wasn't anything on him.
BUCK: You caught me at a bad time.
BILL: Can we get in out of the rain? Slowly Buck starts walking toward the inside of the house. Bill starts walking too in front of Buck. They enter the house.
BUCK: Have a seat. Buck gets into the bathroom, the door of which is wide open, and grabs a towel. He dries himself and throw the towel to Bill. Bill sits down. Buck sits down on an armchair covered with a tartan rug. Bill dries his face. He looks at the gun, still in Buck's I don't like guns. Buck shoves angrily the gun between the armrest and the cushion of his seat. He lies back in his armchair which rocks a little. Bill takes his jacket off. A lightning floods the room with a very bright light. Buck puts his hands on his face. He moans.
BILL: I don't like guns. Buck shoves angrily the gun between the armrest and the cushion of his seat. He lies back in his armchair which rocks a little. Bill takes his jacket off. A lightning floods the room with a very bright light. Buck puts his hands on his face. He moans.
BUCK: Oh, shit !
BILL: Was it raining like this that night ?
BUCK: Yeah. We were drivin'. me, my wife, my daughter. This guy comes out wavin', "Stop!" So I slow down. My wife said, "No, not here, Buck. It's a bad neighborhood. Besides, the baby's asleep in the back." And I said, "Bad neighborhood, nothing." So I stopped. Never even made it to the other car. I could hear the shots being fired, but my eyes wouldn't open. L. Another lightning. Buck puts his hands on his head. Oh, man ! The rain brought me around. This heavy, heavy rain. And I'm on the sidewalk, and I crawl over. and pull my way up and. There are two lateral shots. to the head for my wife. and a single shot through the heart for my daughter. Oh, Jesus, God ! Oh, Jesus. They got, uh. They got $31. The rain nails me every time, man.
BILL: Did they ever find out who did it ?
BUCK: No. I think it was some kind of payback for something. But that's a long story.
ANDERSON: Officer Anderson. What can I do for you?
BILL'S VOICE: It's Dr. Bill Capa. Remember me ? Low-angle shot of the office, showing the high ceiling, with a vintage decoration, contrasting with the modern and functional Oh, yeah, yeah. The Bob Moore murder case.
ANDERSON: Oh, yeah, yeah. The Bob Moore murder case.
BILL: I need to talk to you.
ANDERSON: I hope you're an early riser. I get off at 6:00.
BILL: He puts the phone down, gets his car keys and his jacket, and leaves the car.
ROSE: She snickers. The only piece of clothing she is wearing is a hotel room-maid white apron. Bill doesn't react at all. He looks shocked. She crosses the room to get something in a drawer, showing her naked buttocks. All of a sudden, she seems to remember she is naked and put the two square fireproof cloths she is holding on her buttocks. She laughs then comes back to the stove, where she moves a dish.
BILL: How did you get in here ?
ROSE: Last time I was here, I stole the key. It was by the door.
BILL: What about the alarm ?
ROSE: Oh ! I never thought about that.
BILL: It didn't go off ?
ROSE: No. Um, did I make a mistake ? You have someone in the car ?
BILL: No, goddamn it, there isn't someone in the car ! People are getting killed around here ! You walk around like it's goddamn Disneyland ! What if something were to happen to you ?
ROSE: She seems not to understand Bill's anger.
BILL: He waits a few second before he cools down.
ROSE: She is crying. Bill comes to her and takes her in his arms.
BILL: I'm sorry. Baby, I'm sorry. This is a very nice surprise. He gives a quick look at her naked body. She laughs. Really nice. I'm sorry. They kiss.
ROSE: I'll never take a risk like that again.
BILL: Why don't you take the biggest risk of all and give me. your phone number.
ROSE: She laughs and goes away from him and back to her cooking.
BILL: Voice over. The tank moves on Rose's pubis, then on her stomach. The tank skid on Rose's naked skin and doesn't succeed in climbing on her breast. We then see she is lying on her back on Bill's naked body, who is also lying on this back in the bathtub. They both laugh. We see Bill's hand holding the remote control. The tank skids into the water and stops.
ROSE: Voice ironically disappointed.
BILL: Oh, our, our tank fleet is crippled.
ROSE: Yeah ?
BILL: It's goin' away.
ROSE: She turns around and we guess she is grabbing Bill's penis under
BILL: Hey, hey, hey, hey, please, please. I gotta get some sleep.
ROSE: They kiss.
BILL: I gotta be up.
ROSE: You're chicken.
BILL: I gotta be up at 6:00 in the morning.
ROSE: She turns around to kiss him.
ANDERSON: Nobody told me Buck was one of your patients.
BILL: "Nobody," like Martinez ?
ANDERSON: That's the same "nobody" who didn't tell me Buck was a cop. The camera is now on street level and we see Bill and Anderson crossing the street towards the main gate of the market. They pass a truck delivering fresh meat.
BILL: That's the same "nobody" who didn't tell me Buck was a cop. The camera is now on street level and we see Bill and Anderson crossing the street towards the main gate of the market. They pass a truck delivering fresh meat.
ANDERSON: Fucking Martinez. That's a can of worms you don't want to mess with.
BILL: What about Buck ? They enter the market.
ANDERSON: Hey, look, you gotta promise. if I tell you what I know about this shit, it stays between me and you. And you never heard it from me, okay ? They walk in the market alleyways. Anderson stops near a stall, and starts talking to a stall-holder we do not see. Two, Angelo.
BILL: Why ?
ANDERSON: Why ? Two uniformed cops are walking between the stalls. Anderson raises his voice to them. Because cops are vindictive sons of bitches. Right, Alex ? He throws a chicory to a cop, who catches it.
ALEX: The cops are gone away. Anderson lowers his voice.
ANDERSON: The cops are gone away. Anderson lowers his voice.
BILL: He laughs nervously.
ANDERSON: He laughs nervously.
BILL: Holy shit.
ANDERSON: Yeah. Both these guys were in narcotics. And those guys usually stick together like shit on a shirt. so who knows how long it's been going on. Anyway, one day, it came out. In the station, they had this big fight in front of Anderson takes two little wrapped packages from the unseen stall- holder and gives one to Bill. Two days later, Buck's wife gets blown away.
BILL: He follow Anderson between the stalls.
ANDERSON: Of course there was an investigation. Martinez was a suspect. Buck was a suspect. I mean nobody figured Buck forgiving her. For a while, half the station was a suspect.
BILL: What do you think ?
ANDERSON: I think Buck and Martinez had a lot of enemies on the street. This was just payback for both of 'em. They have come to a fishmonger stall. The fishmonger wraps a fish for Anderson.
CASEY: Hey !. What. What the hell are you doing here ?
CASEY: Let me get this, huh ? No ?
CASEY: Well, you think you can do it in 30 ? He snickers while the hand tighten the collar around his neck.
BILL: He yells.
BILL: He puts his hands around his mouth to make his voice louder. He comes back to the door and presses the intercom button several times. He raises his eyes and notice a folded fire-exit ladder. He test the strength of the folding gate pulled in front of one of the doors. It seems strong enough for him to climb it. He reaches the ladder, which he brings down.
BILL: Oh, Jesus Christ. Bill succeeds in forcing the window open. A big cloud of smoke gets out of it. Casey ! Hey ! He walks through the open window. CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY Bill walks on the upper gallery, coughing with the smoke. He takes off his sunglasses. Down he sees flames around the mantlepiece. He gets very quickly down the steps to ground level. He goes to the mantlepiece. What looks like pieces of paper are burning on the floor around the mantlepiece. He first tries to put the flames out with his foot, then he takes a small shovel and shovel the flaming papers back into the mantlepiece. A curtain suddenly opens on the glass wall above the workshop, flooding the room with bright light. Bill walks to the center of the room, and notice that paintings have been lacerated. On each one, it is the face of a red-hair woman which has been taken away. Bill runs back to the mantlepiece, where he picks up a piece of what he first thought was a piece of paper, but which is actually a piece of canvas from the paintings. On the half-burned piece of canvas, the face of a woman, who is heavily made up but looks slightly like Rose. He puts the piece of canvas down, and notice a slimy liquid on the floor. He turns around to try to find out more about this slimy liquid. He pulls a rope and the painting, hooked on an horizontal cable line, start moving toward him. Behind the paintings, hooked on the same cable, comes Casey's body, hanging upside down. He looks dead and sill have the gag on this mouth. The half-naked body is covered with graffitis. The slimy liquid on the floor is Casey's Ow ! Ow ! Ow ! Shit ! Suddenly the blood, which was grey seen through Bill's eyes, turns A ROAD - EXTERIOR NIGHT Sondra's car. Sondra is driving. Rose is on the passenger seat, with her Bonnie's hairdo and make-up. The car radio is playing a I love this song.
BILL: Ow ! Ow ! Ow ! Shit ! Suddenly the blood, which was grey seen through Bill's eyes, turns A ROAD - EXTERIOR NIGHT Sondra's car. Sondra is driving. Rose is on the passenger seat, with her Bonnie's hairdo and make-up. The car radio is playing a I love this song.
ROSE: I love this song.
SONDRA: I know. Honking. Two thirty-year old men, in an open convertible red car.
SONDRA: Hi ! Hi !. Rose bends over Sondra and kisses her tenderly.
SONDRA: What are you doing ? Rose takes Sondra's hand and guide it under her skirt toward her Wha. No! Sondra bursts laughing and takes her hand away. Rose keeps on cuddling Sondra who tries to concentrate on her driving. Don't ! Don't !
SONG WORDS: Out all night Lady did. When nobody else would. Lady did And she did it real good. Once was not enough.
SONDRA: Ah !
ROSE: Sondra, go !
SONG WORDS: Tell me, Katie What would your mama say.
SONDRA: Oh, I'm gonna go change the music. While Sondra moves away to change the music, Rose goes to the window. In the house across the street, she sees a couple kissing. The music stops.
ROSE: Sondra, come here. Oh, come here. My God !
SONDRA: She comes near Rose.
ROSE: These are your neighbors !
SONDRA: They do this all the time.
SONDRA: Oh, wait. Watch, watch! No!
ROSE: She bends down under the window sill and get Sondra down too. They get up and keep on watching.
SONDRA: Oh, I don't believe it !
ROSE: Oh, this is the part ! This is the part !
SONDRA: Oh, my gosh !
ROSE: Oh !
SONDRA: Believe me, they can fuck. They laugh. Oh, I can't watch this anymore. I didn't see anything.
ROSE: Oh, Sondra, go. I love this song.
SONDRA: The two girls start cuddling each other. Sondra strokes Rose's naked stomach, then her face. between the girls legs.
ROSE: Sondra, through the window ! Look ! Look ! The camera remains on the mirror, which shows the two girls climbing on the bed to get a better look.
SONDRA: Oh, what are they doing now ?
ROSE: I can't tell.
SONDRA: Are they gonna do it ? No ! We see the couple in the house across the street. She is only wearing panties and her breast is naked. He is only wearing his trunks. They flirt on the couch.
ROSE: My God ! It's gonna happen right now. Back to the mirror shot. The two girls, still standing up, are slapping each other buttocks. Rose raises Sondra's dress.
SONDRA: Ow !
ROSE: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. She sits on the bed and picks up a champagne glass. Oh, champagne. Sondra comes and sits next to her. Rose gives her her glass. Sondra drinks.
SONDRA: Sondra gives the glass back to Rose, who puts it on a furniture. The two faces come very close, and the two girls start exchanging tender little kisses. Then Rose moves Sondra's dress down and takes her own top off, showing her breast. Sondra seems very moved by what she sees. She strokes Rose's face. Their lips are getting very close. the top of her skirt, showing her buttocks. We see the tattooed She moves her face away from Sondra.
ROSE: She moves her face away from Sondra.
SONDRA: Why ? It's wonderful.
ROSE: Sondra, I'm a jinx.
SONDRA: No. We can cancel each other out.
ROSE: She sobs a little.
SONDRA: Look, the sky isn't falling down.
ROSE: Yes, it is.
SONDRA: No. Let's get that silly thing off your head. There. I love your brown hair. She strokes her hair.
BILL: Who is it ? After two unsuccessful pictures, Rose appears on the screen. She is wearing very short pants, a flowered blouse knotted under her breast and a small backpack.
ROSE'S VOICE: I'm back. Bill opens the gate and looks through the window at Rose crossing the garden.
BILL: Here she comes. Wearing a backpack on her back. making her look even younger than she is. Rose enters the room, puts her backpack down and falls in Bill's She falls into his arms. And they kiss. They kiss.
ROSE: Oh, God. I'm so glad that you're here. I didn't know if you'd be in.
BILL: I don't have to be anywhere until this evening.
ROSE: Yeah ? She opens her blouse. She doesn't wear a bra and her nipple So, what color are my nipples ? They both laugh. She covers and uncovers her nipple. They kiss Oh, God. To be normal like this all the time.
ROSE: Oh, God. To be normal like this all the time.
BILL: Oh, God, this is better than normal. This is much better than normal. It's just driving me crazy, that's all. I mean, I don't really know you. who you are. what you do. if you're safe, when you're coming by. You have all the power. I just sit around here and wait for you.
ROSE: She cries.
BILL: Yeah. I mean, other things happen, but. in the "what I wait for" department, you're it.
ROSE: Oh, my. Time has elapsed. They are now seated next to each other. Bill is bare-chest and Rose is wearing one of Bill's denim shirts. They look at a photo album. Rose puts her finger on the pictures and Bill tells her who it is.
BILL: Bob's wife. My ex-wife.
ROSE: She's pretty.
BILL: Pretty fucked up. Rose flips the page. A picture of Bob. Oh, God. I forget that he's dead. She kisses him tenderly to comfort him.
ROSE: She flips the page.
BILL: Ten years ago.
ROSE: Really ? Do you have anything more recent ?
BILL: Maybe. Hold on. He gets up and goes to the shelves. He start looking for another I don't know why he kept this hidden back here except maybe. because it had a picture of his wife naked, which leads me to believe that. the relationship wasn't as dead as they were pretending. He sits back next to Rose, and start looking at the new album. I don't know who these people are.
ROSE: She seems very worried all of a sudden. Bill looks at her, a bit disconcerted by her unexpected reaction.
BILL: One of my patients was killed last night. He was murdered.
ROSE: She seems very disturbed by the news.
BILL: The painter. Casey.
ROSE: She has tears in her eyes.
BILL: A little bit after.
ROSE: What did you see ?
BILL: You don't want to know. He takes off his sunglasses and start getting up, covering his crotch with the towel. About a half hour before group. I'm gonna get a shower. You gonna be okay out here ?
ROSE: BOB'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY Bill enters the bathroom and turn the shower faucet on. Then he gets out of the room.
BILL: She jumps. She drops the envelope, picks up her backpack and runs out of the
ROSE: She jumps. She drops the envelope, picks up her backpack and runs out of the
BILL: Rose ! Rose !
BILL: He jumps into his car without opening the door. Bob's car get's out of the residence.
BILL: 2ASB. 185. The chase goes on. Rose drives very recklessly, Bill too. He drives through the cross roads without slowing down. A man, who was seated on a low wall, has to climb on it to avoid Bill's car, which is driving on the sidewalk. Bill stops near him. We hear the voice of an angry woman.
CLARK: He is very smartly dressed, and even wears a bow tie. He counts the books on the shelves.
BILL: He has just come into the room.
CLARK: Well, last week. there were 58 books on the bookshelf where there is always. and I mean always, 59 books, and this week there are 59 again, so I don't.
BILL: He turns toward Sondra.
SONDRA: She is very smartly dressed too, in a white suit with black collar. She sighs.
BILL: He moves rapidly to the shelves.
SONDRA: It. The Van Gogh. But I didn't read any of it. Honestly, I promise ! Bill takes the book and moves away from the shelves. Sondra signs menacingly to Clark.
CLARK: What did I do ? Bill has seated himself, and he looks through the book. Sondra tries to read above his shoulder. Close-up of the book. It is Bob's diary. Close-up on one paragraph. We hear Bob's voice reading the paragraph.
BOB'S VOICE: I was right about the threats from the Monday group. This cycle of pain. Yesterday's victim becomes tomorrow's monster. Today's the day. Buck enters the room.
BILL: Buck starts closing the door, but Richie comes in.
BUCK: Hi, Bill.
BILL: Hi, Buck. Buck sits down. Casey, uh. is not gonna be joining us tonight, so I think we should get started.
BUCK: That's typical. Thunder rumbles. Buck puts his hands on his head. Richie looks at Oh, shit!
CLARK: Buck, are you all right ?
BUCK: It's none of your fucking business.
SONDRA: You know, I can't stand this arguing. Really.
CLARK: I'd like to start, if I may. I'd like to apologize to the group and Sondra. While he is talking, Bill keeps on looking through his friend's diary. A photo is stuck between two pages. It is a photo of Rose Everything that you said last week in group was right, and that's why I lost my temper. Uh, the young lady that I mentioned last week. that relationship has been terminated. No reason and no hope. She just, just called. and told me, and that's it.
BILL: He reads what is written on the back of the photo. He gives the photo to Sondra.
SONDRA: She laughs and brings the picture to her chest.
BUCK: He tears the picture away from her hands. He looks at the picture and turns to her.
SONDRA: Yeah. Yeah.
BUCK: The one you've been boring the living shit out of us with ? This is the one that's saving you from yourself ? Your shopping mall hag ?
SONDRA: Shut up.
BUCK: The one that makes you smile ?
SONDRA: Shut up !
BUCK: The one that you wish was a man ?
SONDRA: What are you getting at, Buck ?
BUCK: That Bonnie ? Is that it ?
SONDRA: That's right, that's it. That's right, That's right.
BUCK: Sondra. this is my Bonnie.
SONDRA: She bursts laughing, but she has tears in her eyes. Bill looks intensely at her. Sondra has started sobbing.
CLARK: He tears the picture away from Buck's hands.
BUCK: He puts his head in his hands.
CLARK: He looks at the picture. Buck tears the picture away from his hands.
BUCK: Hey, hey, hey ! They are ready to fight. Sondra comes between them. The three of them are talking together.
SONDRA: You're lying to me ! Why are you lying to me ?
CLARK: Stop acting like an. Like an emotional child !
BUCK: Goddamn tar baby !
SONDRA: You're making it up ! You're making it up !
CLARK: Nobody's making anything up. and stop it, stop it, stop it ! During this heated verbal exchange, Richie has picked the fallen picture from the floor.
SONDRA: Stop it !
CLARK: Quit it ! You're crumpling the picture up ! I want you to stop showing off ! You're a little brat !
BUCK: Fuck it ! You have the emotions of a styrofoam cup ! We see Richie putting the picture away and leaving hurriedly.
CLARK: You calm down, and you stop.
SONDRA: Where's the picture ? Lightning, thunder, and the pictures appears close-up in a hand. It is Hector's hand, who looks at them all, sneering.
HECTOR: How in the name of God. could all of you be going out with the same woman and not know ? Not have a clue ? Including you, Mr. Psycho-fucking-analyst ? Not to mention Bob Moore. who probably took this amazing picture himself in front of his expensive painting. I'm gonna call the Guinness Book of World Records. because I think this woman deserves credit. And I'm gonna make sure that all of your names are included. so you can all share in the Well, you should know something about sharing, huh, Hector ? I mean, you and Buck must have shared some very tender moments. discussing his wife. Huh ? Why didn't you tell me the truth ?
BILL: Well, you should know something about sharing, huh, Hector ? I mean, you and Buck must have shared some very tender moments. discussing his wife. Huh ? Why didn't you tell me the truth ?
HECTOR: What truth is that ?
BILL: Why didn't you tell me Buck was a cop. not to mention a suspect in a murder case ? Not to mention you, goddamn it.
HECTOR: Because. I'm not your patient, and I don't have to tell you shit !
BILL: He jumps on Hector. Bucks tries to take them apart.
BUCK: He has succeeded in taking them apart.
BILL: One fuckin' thing ! Can you do that, Buck ?
HECTOR: You really know how to pick your women, you know that ?
BILL: I know you can't. you lyin' sack of shit ! He wants to jump again on Hector. Buck holds him back. You can't fuckin' do it !
BUCK: Listen. After my wife died, I wanted to slaughter this cock-sucker !
SONDRA: Don't ! No more !
BUCK: But I realized we both loved her. It became a, sort of a bond between us. Isn't that right, Hector ? Isn't it ? Hector ! Jesus God ! I never got the chance to forgive her. So I forgave him instead.
HECTOR: All right ! So much for the famous fucking Monday group ! Now we have a suspect with a tattoo on her ass and no address. Now the cops need your help. What about the car ? Anybody around here wrote down the license plates numbers ?
BUCK: "The license plates numbers" ?
SONDRA: We didn't even.
HECTOR: Huh ? Bill looks at Hector, but says nothing.
SONDRA: Well, I didn't think to-to-to write it down.
HOTEL ATTENDANT: Hey, welcome back to L.A., Miss Brown.
BILL: Dr. Ashland from New York with the psychiatric convention.
HOTEL ATTENDANT: Dr. Ashland ? In the health club.
BILL: I don't think she is a sociopath.
LARRY: Well, then how about something simple and snappy like a multiple personality disorder ? You've fallen into a trap. You are not well. She is not well. And to you, Iit feels like a bond. He gets up and starts walking in the room. Bill follow him.
BILL: She's been acting this thing out as if. it's the only way for her to have a life.
LARRY: Or lives.
LARRY: You really want to go on seeing her, do you ?
BILL: Yes, I want to see her.
LARRY: In a, a nonprofessional sense ?
BILL: In every sense.
LARRY: I don't have your magical tuning fork. All I know is that two people are dead. and she seems an excellent suspect. Bill, salmon swim upstream to mate and die. And so do men.
BILL: Is that what I'm doing?
BILL: Anderson ! I need your help with something.
ANDERSON: Hey, man, how ya doin'? They start walking together in the street.
BILL: I'm sitting in a restaurant last night, and I'm looking out the window. watching this woman trying to back out of a space right in front of mine.
ANDERSON: A beautiful woman ?
BILL: Stunning. Anyway, the next thing I know, she busted out the headlight on my car.
ANDERSON: Uh-oh. Drives away, right ?
BILL: I don't even think she knew what she did.
ANDERSON: But you'd like to meet her ? Bill answers with a silly smile. All right, um, I'll see what I can do. You got the license number ?
BILL: He gets a piece of paper out of his shirt pocket and gives it to
ANDERSON: The two men split up. Anderson walks into the police office.
BILL: He yells.
HECTOR: I ought to shoot you!
ANDERSON: I came to make amends.
HECTOR: So make 'em, loudmouth ! Full shot of the building. Very typical L.A. architecture, looking almost like a movie set. Anderson and Hector are leaning against the bannister of one of the upper galleries.
ANDERSON: I just spoke to Bill Capa. This license plate might belong to our mystery lady. Close up on Anderson and Hector. Anderson gives to Hector the piece of paper Bill had given to him. Hector reads the paper.
BILL: Mrs. Niedelmeyer ! It's Dr. Capa again. Edith Niedelmeyer opens the small panel in the door. She looks You leave me alone ! Get away from here !
EDITH: You leave me alone ! Get away from here !
BILL: I need your help, please !
EDITH: Why are you torturing me like this ?
BILL: Mrs. Niedelmeyer, please !
BILL: I need you to listen to me ! My best friend was killed. He was stabbed with a knife.
EDITH: You get out of my house !
BILL: . 38 times in the chest !
EDITH: You-You go away!
BILL: He follows her through the sitting room. They arrive near a bay window, behind which we can see a large swimming pool.
EDITH: Go away !
BILL: I don't have anywhere else to go, Mrs. Niedelmeyer ! What are you hiding from me ? What is it ?
EDITH: Why won't you tell me the truth ? Edith picks up a cordless phone on a table. Bill tears the phone away from her hands.
BILL: Why won't you tell me the truth ? Edith picks up a cordless phone on a table. Bill tears the phone away from her hands.
EDITH: I'm calling the police !
BILL: Put the phone down ! Put the phone down !
EDITH: She falls on the armchair in which Bill has pushed her.
BILL: My patient Richie is involved.
EDITH: Why in God's name are you doing this horrible joke ?
BILL: If you just help me.
EDITH: Richie Dexter is dead ! He killed himself four years ago.
BILL: Why ?
EDITH: Because he couldn't stand. what my husband was doing to She gets up goes to the window bay and open a glass door. She leans against the frame of the door. He hung himself with a belt. He was 12. I didn't know ! I mean, how could I know ? Nobody knew.
BILL: What about the family ?
EDITH: He is survived by his brother, Dale. If Richie Dexter were alive today. he'd be 16 years old. He also had a sister, Bill stands still for a few seconds. He has just understood the truth. Then he sighs and rushes out of the house. He runs near a impressive mantlepiece decorated with a fierce lion head pulling its tongue out.
BILL: He gets nearer and puts the piece of wood down. When he is close to Richie, he sees that his T-shirt is badly torn down and full of blood. He wants to touch it, but Richie starts moaning. Bill kneels near him.
RICHIE: He can hardly talk, and stammers even more than usual.
BILL: Richie. Richie. I have to see Rose. He takes off Richie's glasses. I need her. He takes off Richie's wig, and Rose's face appears.
ROSE: She has gone back to Rose's voice, and doesn't stammer anymore.
BILL: Where's Dale ?
ROSE: She cries. He is also crying.
BILL: He is also crying.
ROSE: No ! No ! L-It happened. It just happened.
BILL: What? What happened, Rose ? Please. I need to know.
ROSE: When Richie died. Dale buried the body and then he said, "Richie, come here." And I told him, I told him, "My name is Rose !" He slapped me so hard, I couldn't get up. A-And he, he made me dress in these clothes. and h-he did things to me that made me not want to be a woman anymore. I was Richie from then on.
BILL: What happened to Rose ?
ROSE: After a while, I forgot about Rose. Then Richie got busted.
BILL: And you had to come to group.
ROSE: They were our world. They were our family.
BILL: But then what ? Rose started coming back ?
ROSE: No! Rose, Rose was too scared, so Bonnie came out. Bonnie was first.
BILL: Oh, honey.
ROSE: Help me, please ! Help me. Rose moves her eyes down and Bill follows her eyes. He discovers that Rose's hand has been nailed to the carved armrest of the Jesus! Oh, my God ! Bill stands up. Oh! Jesus Christ ! Jesus Christ ! He goes to the table where he had dropped the piece of wood and start looking for an appropriate tool. He finds a big hammer. That crazy bastard ! With the forked end of the hammer, he raises the nail.
BILL: Jesus! Oh, my God ! Bill stands up. Oh! Jesus Christ ! Jesus Christ ! He goes to the table where he had dropped the piece of wood and start looking for an appropriate tool. He finds a big hammer. That crazy bastard ! With the forked end of the hammer, he raises the nail.
ROSE: She cries and yells. Bill gets the nail off. Rose can't breathe anymore. Her eyes are rolling upwards.
BILL: He feels that she is going away from him.
ROSE: She goes back to Richie's voice and face. She starts stammering
BILL: Rose, come back ! Richie ! Richie, leave her alone !
ROSE: Still talking like Richie.
BILL: Rose. Come on.
ROSE: Rose's head stands up : she is gone back being Rose. Bill takes off the other nail.
BILL: I know. Come on, let's go. He helps her to stand up, and then to walk. Let's go. Here we go. Come on. Shh. Come here. They start going down to the workshop. Here we go. Here we go. Let's move. We hear the sound of a nail-gun, and a nail clicks on a piece of metal near them.
ROSE: Oh ! Several nail-gun shots. Nails are getting stuck in the various wooden objects around them.
DALE: Shot from behind Dale. He holds a nail-gun and keeps on shooting He sticks a nail in Bill's shirt. Bill remains nailed against a carved wooden panel.
ROSE: She yells and holds Bill tightly.
BILL: Get back ! Get back !
ROSE: Dale, no !
DALE: Quick tongue, slow wit. Deadly, Doctor. Bill tries to take the nail off. The nail must have gone through his flesh, because there is blood on his shirt. Dale raises his nail-gun slowly, but Hector appears from behind a wall, holding a «real» gun.
HECTOR: Hi, Dale. You fucking daffodil. Put that toy down. Put it in the toolbox. Now ! I got .45 caliber nails in this gun !
BILL: What are you doing here, Martinez ?
HECTOR: He talks to Bill who is behind him, but without taking his eyes away from Dale. At the end of his sentence, Hector slightly turns his head toward Bill. Immediately Dale shoots him. Hector bends down a little because of the pain, and stands back up to shoot Dale. But Dale is faster than him and nails both of his hands against the wood He yells.
HECTOR: He yells.
BILL: Go ! Get over there ! Get over there !
ROSE: No ! No ! Dale keeps on shooting and sticks several nails in Hector's Go ! Run ! Run ! Run ! Run ! Go ! Bill succeeds in getting the nail off his arm. He runs away with We follows them through the workshop. As they reach a staircase, we hear an engine starting. Then a whole block of shelves falls in front of them. We see Dale in a small glass cabin, his hands on the controls of a handling machine. Bill moves Rose away from him.
HECTOR: Go ! Run ! Run ! Run ! Run ! Go ! Bill succeeds in getting the nail off his arm. He runs away with We follows them through the workshop. As they reach a staircase, we hear an engine starting. Then a whole block of shelves falls in front of them. We see Dale in a small glass cabin, his hands on the controls of a handling machine. Bill moves Rose away from him.
BILL: Let's go! . just as a huge piece of furniture falls on Bill, who falls down, stuck under the furniture.
ROSE: No ! Get out ! Dale appears behind Bill, and wraps a leather belt around his neck. He tightens the belt. Bill suffocates. Dale pulls him by the belt across the workshop.
DALE: Come on ! Come on ! He puts him inside a metal cage. He ties the belt on the top of the cage. Bill tries, with both hands to move the belt away from his throat.
BILL: You fucking son of a bitch ! Dale takes a small electric saw, switches it on and tests it on the bars of the cage. Sparks spring up. You really fucked it up, didn't ya ? Got your little brother killed.
DALE: No !
BILL: You let old Niedelmeyer do it to him.
DALE: No, I saved him !
BILL: You knew what was happening.
DALE: I didn't know !
BILL: Because it happened to you before !
DALE: Would you goddamn shut up ?
BILL: Could have saved your little brother, but he killed He is getting angry. Shut up ! Shut the fuck up !
DALE: He is getting angry.
BILL: You failed, Dale. And you made Rose become Richie !
DALE: He calms down and smiles.
BILL: Yeah, you did. He coughs. Why'd you kill Casey, Dale?
DALE: Why are you head-shrinkers all alike, huh ? Y-You can't keep your fucking hands off of us. Huh ? Always pokin' and pushin'. Huh ? While talking, he keeps on switching his saw on and off.
BILL: Why'd you do it, Dale ?
DALE: Because. that little bitch, Rose, she started sneaking out. playing like Bonnie, modeling for him night after night. Christ, Bill, he was lookin' right through her. gonna recognize Richie in group. Well, I might have missed old Niedelmeyer. but I sure as hell got Bob. real good. - And now. He starts his saw. Sparks spring up on the edge of the cage. I'm gonna cut you into little pieces and sand the skin off.
BILL: He snickers.
DALE: The tyranny of normalcy, Bill. He starts his saw again, and slowly moves it close to Bill. We hear the sound of the nail-gun and a nail gets stuck in Dale's shoulder. The saw stops. Dale walks back a few steps to face Rose, holding the nail-gun pointed on him.
DALE: My name is. My name is Rose. He rushes on her. She shoots and sticks a nail in the middle of his forehead. Dale falls down. Rose starts screaming. No ! No ! Bill tries to get the belt off his neck. Rose raises the gun to her throat, and presses the trigger. But it doesn't work. She tries again. It still doesn't work. The gun must be empty. No ! Bill eventually succeeds in getting free, but Rose, after she has thrown the gun away, starts running through the workshop. No !
ROSE: My name is. My name is Rose. He rushes on her. She shoots and sticks a nail in the middle of his forehead. Dale falls down. Rose starts screaming. No ! No ! Bill tries to get the belt off his neck. Rose raises the gun to her throat, and presses the trigger. But it doesn't work. She tries again. It still doesn't work. The gun must be empty. No ! Bill eventually succeeds in getting free, but Rose, after she has thrown the gun away, starts running through the workshop. No !
BILL: He runs after her.
BILL: Rose ! Rose ! Stop ! Rose ! Rain is soaking both of them, but they keep on climbing. Thunder is rumbling. A long distance shot shows the whole chimney, with Rose and Bill climbing on it. Wait ! Rose!
ROSE: She sobs.
BILL: For God's sakes, don't jump ! Rose !
ROSE: She has reached the circular platform on the top of the chimney. She yells.
BILL: Rose ! Stop !
BILL: He reaches the platform.
BILL: Wait !
ROSE: Why ?
BILL: Rose ! No ! Stop, please ! Rose jumps on the very narrow ring which circles the platform. Just stay there !
ROSE: It's too late. I've gone too far. I can't go back.
BILL: If you go, I go ! I swear to God ! I swear to God.
ROSE: Why would you do that ?
BILL: Please, God, just come over here. I don't want you to die. Just give me your hand. Take a risk ! There's no risk in dying. Come on.
ROSE: Oh, Capa.
BILL: Come on.
ROSE: She puts her hand out to Bill's strutted hand. We hear the sound of a high gust of wind, and Rose looses her balance and starts falling backward.
BILL: No !
ROSE: Capa ! She yells. No ! Bill jumps from the platform and catches a chain hanging under the platform. His momentum makes him swing and he catches Rose's arm just as she was falling from the outer ring. With his other arm he holds on the chain and they start swinging back and forth. They eventually reach the chimney ladder. Rose grabs one of the rungs, followed by Bill, who pushes her up.
BILL: Come on. They move back to the platform, and, as soon as they reach it, they hug each other very tight. Bill looks at the beacon on the top of the chimney. From white, the beacon becomes red, which is its real color. Bill smiles : he sees red again. He hugs Rose even more tightly.
HECTOR'S VOICE: While the camera pans away from the platfom, showing the whole platform with Bill and Rose holding each other, we hear Hector's Bill starts laughing. Bill keeps on laughing. Rose starts laughing too.
CREDITS: During the credits, we hear the following song :
HECTOR'S VOICE: At the end of the credits, we hear Hector's voice again.
