CONAN THE BARBARIAN: Written by Thomas Dean Donnelly & Joshua Oppenheimer Based on the writings of Robert E. Howard
UNBORN BABY: Eyes closed, floating at peace within red glow of the womb. Suddenly, a flash of steel, as a sword pierces the womb, its tip not an inch from the baby's head. As the sword is ripped out, light streams in from outside, we travel with it, into the DIN of BATTLE.
CORIN: Islene!!! Wielding a broadsword, runes etched into its surface, Corin cuts a bloody path through his enemies, his eyes never leaving Islene. The Aesir standing over Islene LAUGHS as she claws at the earth behind her, trying to pull herself away.
AESIR: Now, now little whore. Did I get you or your little one?
ISLENE: I'd ask you the same. The Aesir HOWLS in agony, raising his sword to deliver the killing blow -- when another sword pierces his chest. The Aesir falls, revealing Corin standing behind him. Corin throws aside his horned helmet, and falls to his knees beside Islene, checking her wound. When he pulls his hands back they are coated in blood. Their eyes meet. Torment. Loss. They both know. She pulls a knife from the folds of her pelts, puts it in his hand.
ISLENE (CONT'D): Take your child.
CORIN: I cannot. Islene looks to her naked belly. The baby inside presses against its womb, a visible impression on her flesh.
ISLENE: There is no time, husband. I would see my child's face. Islene's eyes flutter as she struggles. Corin lowers the knife. Islene's eyes lock with Corin's as he puts the knife to use. Never once does she scream. A moment later, Corin lifts the crying, blood-covered BOY up through the falling snowflakes to Islene's lap.
ISLENE (CONT'D): A boy. He will be strong. A warrior with no equal.
CORIN: Do not speak, love.
ISLENE: You have never been able to still my tongue, and you will not this day. He will be wild, Corin. You must temper him. She shares one kiss with her child, its first taste not of mother's milk, but of her blood.
ISLENE (CONT'D): Conan. His--name--is--Conan.
CONAN: The boy's eyes are as deep and blue as the Eastern Sea.
URAN: A Cimmerian warrior is like any other man. A Cimmerian warrior feels hunger. He feels cold. Like other men he may lie and cheat. (stares the boys down) But when a Cimmerian warrior hungers, he hungers only for the blood of his enemy. When he feels cold, it is the cold steel of his sword. When he lies, he lies in wait for his enemy. And when he cheats, he cheats death itself! Uran stops at the end of the line, where a boy stands a good two heads smaller than the rest. He is no more than eight, but his face is as stoic, driven.
URAN (CONT'D): Conan! You are too young to be here. Withdraw. CONAN, determined, doesn't move an inch. The LARGEST TEEN menacingly steps up to the smaller boy.
LARGEST TEEN: He said leave, motherless whelp.
URAN: In the black crag in the high pass stands a wooden training sword. The one who claims it, with stone still in his mouth, will have earned the right to train with the warriors. The boys look at each other, sizing up the competition.
URAN (CONT'D): Well? What are you waiting for?! And off they run. They knock each other down, punching the other's stomachs, each trying to force the other to expel their stones. One or two succeed. Most of the remaining boys run for the trail that winds high into the mountains. But a few head right for the sheer cliff face. Conan follows the ones headed to the cliff.
CLIFF FACE: And when the Cimmerian boys climb, it is a sight to behold. They find cracks we can barely see and scale the smooth rock face as though it were a ladder. The hulking teen reaches for the same handhold as Conan, trying to knock him off. Conan swings with one hand and finds another path. In moments he is ahead.
CIMMERIAN BOY: Conan! Run! But Conan simply pulls the axe from his large boy's skull. He turns to face the Picts, his eyes burning. The Picts LAUGH and CHARGE CONAN.
LATER: Corin arrives with Uran and other armed CIMMERIAN WARRIORS. They get a brief glimpse of a single PICT, escaping in the other direction. One of the Cimmerians takes off in pursuit. Corin desperately searches for his son.
CORIN: Conan? Conan?! Conan steps forward from out of a thicket, his body covered in Pict blood. Three PICTS lie massacred, the bodies hacked to pieces.
CORIN (CONT'D): What have you done, boy? Conan walks past the other stunned Cimmerians, up to his father. Conan SPITS OUT the bloody stone from his mouth.
CONAN: They killed one. I killed three. I am a warrior now. Uran and the other Cimmerian men exchange worried glances. Looking at the carved up bodies of the Picts, they are aghast. Conan looks confused. Why aren't they happy?
CORIN: A warrior? What you have done a jackal would do. Never a warrior.
CONAN: They would have done the same --
CORIN: As I said, jackals.
(TO URAN): He is not ready. I will forge him myself.
TRAINING MONTAGE:: Conan is tested under Corin's watchful eye: - Forced to sleep in the snow, while his father keeps warm inside. - A heavy boulder on his shoulder blades while he balances on wet river rocks. - Climbing a cliff face, his bare hands leaving blood behind on the jagged rocks.
CORIN: Stoke your fire, boy. Conan slams the bellows closed, anger rising.
CONAN: "Stoke your fire, chop your wood." I have slept where wolves dare not. I have balanced a thousand river stones. When will you teach me the sword? Corin stares his son in the eyes. Judging.
CORIN: Think you're ready? Then tell me: what is a sword's purpose?
CONAN: To slay ones enemies.
CORIN: No. That is what it does. Its purpose is why you use it. He tosses Conan two lumps of ore.
CORIN (CONT'D): Tell me, which makes the best sword? Conan takes the two lumps, testing them. He hands his father back one.
CORIN (CONT'D): The stronger ore, eh? Then we shall make a sword of it, and tomorrow you will show me what brute strength yields.
CONAN: Why did it break?
CORIN: Because it had no life.
CUT TO:: Sparks fly as Corin pounds on the glowing edge of the sword with hammer. Corin nods at Conan, who sprinkles the glowing blade with ash.
CUT TO:: Steam rises as Corin lowers the blade into a freezing slack tub, only to place it right back into the flames.
CORIN (CONT'D): The softer ore is what a man lives for. It is flexible and lasting. It survives, even against the greatest of foes. But too much of the soft ore, the blade will not cut deep enough when it must.
CUT TO:: Corin fashions the blade's hilt, engraving the guard and pommel. It is a work of art.
CORIN (CONT'D): A sword must be tempered, the two ores united through fire and ice. Through its suffering the sword comes to hold both life and death. Corin hands Conan the sword.
CORIN (CONT'D): Now tell me, what is this sword's purpose? Conan furrows his brow, trying to puzzle the answer. He can't. Corin's disappointment shows. He takes the sword from Conan's hands.
CORIN (CONT'D): This one is not ready yet.
CIMMERIAN SENTRY: See something? The standing sentry falls backwards, revealing an ARROW piercing his right eye. Shocked, the remaining sentry reaches for the WARNING HORN mounted on the wall. But as he reaches for it, his shadow becomes three dimensional, MORPHING into
UKAFA: That's the last of their guard towers.
LUCIUS: All this sneaking around for a lowly tribe of barbarians.
LUCIUS: That is only because they have never faced my legion. Khalar regards Lucius with amusement.
KHALAR SINGH: Then show us. But should you fail, remember the plan. Lucius scowls as he delivers a bow to Khalar Singh.
CORIN: Conan?
LUCIUS: Retreat! As a unit, the Aquilonians race back into the woods. In seconds, the Cimmerians give chase in wild pursuit.
CORIN: Wait! Hold your ground! But it's too late, nearly half the Cimmerian warriors are gone on the chase.
URAN: Death is in the air, invaders. Can you taste it?
LUCIUS: Indeed. I savor it. Uran notices something is wrong. His eyes go skyward. Atop the cliff stand Cheren and a dozen more of his blind archers, bows at the ready with FLAMING ARROWS.
CONAN: Conan rushes through a river, now tinged red with blood, and reaches the far end of the village. Huts burn, women are chained, only a handful of Cimmerians still stand. Lucius and his Aquilonian mercenaries are helping the Spearmen slay the wounded. Conan grabs a fallen sword and rushes for the nearest Aquilonian and RUNS HIM THROUGH. A ZINGARAN spots him and rushes him with his spear. Conan readies himself for the
CHARGE --: When the Zingaran loses his head, lopped off by Corin's blade.
CONAN: Father!
CORIN: Come. Corin, sporting a deep gash to his abdomen, pulls a reluctant Conan from the battle, back toward the forge.
CONAN: Do we need more weapons? Corin drops his sword, then struggles to lift a heavy grating in the dirt floor. Beneath it a trough of cooling water leads under the hut and away from the village.
CORIN: Go. There is a hunting lodge in the North Pass with provisions.
CONAN: No! I will fight! Corin grabs Conan by his tunic, pulling him up to his face. Corin's eyes are half-crazed.
CORIN: This fight is over, but yours has just begun. You wanted to be a warrior of the tribe, Conan--now you must be its last.
CONAN: Father, I am not afraid to die.
CORIN: Good. Make your death have purpose. BOOM. Something slams at the door. It does not budge. Again,
CONAN: No! Lucius delivers a massive backhand, sending Conan flying backwards -- and demolishing one of the Forge's main support beams. Half of the forge comes crashing down on top of Conan, pinning his bleeding form to the ground, just a few feet from his fallen father. Enraged, Lucius turns his anger to Corin, raising his sword to deliver the killing blow.
PICT: (strange dialect -
SUBTITLED): Their heads. You promised me their heads.
KHALAR SINGH: All you wish, once we are gone. The Pict nods and heads off, drawing his knife. Khalar Singh stares down at Corin, sizing him up. Corin lifts up into a sitting position, back to the forge.
CORIN: What is it you want?
KHALAR SINGH: I seek neither gold nor steel, but flesh and blood. The last of a royal line that goes back three thousand years. Corin LAUGHS.
CORIN: Royalty in Cimmeria? Never. Each man is free here.
KHALAR SINGH: But I seek a woman. Khalar looks outside the door of the forge. The Cimmerians women are being herded by the slavers.
CORIN: My wife was killed, long ago, by swine such as you. Khalar nods, understanding.
KHALAR SINGH: Then our stories began in the same place, Cimmerian. I too lost my wife to marauders. How many men, in how many lands have suffered so? The only answer is power, strength unfettered, the kind of which can unite all Hyboria under a single crown. That is the legacy I seek. Will you join me? It's a powerful, convincing speech. But Corin holds his tongue, unmoved.
FARIQ: I would cut out his eyes, father, so that he will not find them. So he will wander the afterlife forever. Khalar smiles.
KHALAR SINGH: Show me your strength, Fariq. Without it, you will never rule. With it, you will never be forgotten. Fariq DRIVES THE SWORD INTO CORIN'S EYE. Corin doesn't make a sound. Once Fariq has ripped out Corin's eyes, Khalar runs Corin through.
CORIN: Soon -- it comes for you.
CONAN'S POV: Conan glimpses around the faces of Khalar and his men, each image seared into his memory as if ablaze.
KHALAR SINGH: Burn this place. It no longer exists.
THE PICT: Conan spots the Pict, who is decapitating a dead Cimmerian warrior, adding to the collection of heads at his tattooed waist. The Pict doesn't notice as Conan slips up behind him, then
NOTCHED ARM: Where there was once a single notch, there are now FIVE such notches, on a much broader arm that struggles to pin another powerful looking arm.
BARKEEP: He's back there. The barkeep motion to the arm wrestlers.
CITY GUARD #1: What's this one done?
BARKEEP: What's he done?! What hasn't he done? He's bedded six of my whores and finished off three casks of mead--and he hasn't paid so much as a silver piece for it.
CITY GUARD #1: So have your men deal with him.
BARKEEP: I did. Behind the bar, six men each hold down two HULKING MEN YELLING in agony as their horribly broken arms are snapped back into place.
CITY GUARD #2: Sounds like a real problem. Too bad we have other places to be right now. The Barkeep shakes his head, knowing the routine. He slips a pair of silver pieces into the soldier's hand.
BARKEEP: Just get that behemoth out of here. The two City Guards make their way to the back of the bar. His back to them, the DRUNKEN MAN they're after struggles to pin his opponent, cobras beneath each of their wrists, ready to strike at the loser. A pair of voluptuous WHORES watch, caressing the Drunken Man's sinewy back. The Drunken Man YELLS in fury as he SLAMS the other man's hand down upon the cobra, which immediately bites its prey. As the soldiers arrive, the drunken victor throws his tankard of ale at the Barkeep, who's now back behind the bar.
DRUNKEN MAN: Piss-water! You'll serve my friends and I your best, barman, or you'll taste steel!
CITY GUARD #1: Time to leave, northerner. The Drunken Man turns as the City Guard puts a hand on his shoulder.
CONAN: The gangly fifteen year old boy has grown into a powerfully built man, broad-shouldered with sun browned skin lined with battle scars. Only the piercing blue eyes and square cut black mane remain from the boy we last saw. Conan stands to his full height, looming over the smaller City Guards, who instinctively take a step back.
CONAN: No, my small friends. It's time to die. Now-- Conan sways. The room spins. He falls on his face.
CONAN (CONT'D): Who's first --
CITY GUARD #1: By the gods, he's as heavy as a horse.
CITY GUARD #2: Even a dead horse smells better than this.
LIEUTENANT: What's the charge?
CITY GUARD #2: Public drunkenness. Another damn hill ape who can't handle his liquor.
LIEUTENANT: Is that so, boy? How do you plead? Conan yawns in response. One of the City Guards slaps Conan, hard, across the face. Conan slowly opens his eyes.
CONAN: Where's the Captain of the Guard? SCREAMS OF PAIN come from down the hall, past a locked door.
LIEUTENANT: In the cells, interrogating a prisoner. And you'll get the same if you don't answer. You're accused of public drunkenness. How do you plead?
CONAN: In truth, I've been guilty of much. Jewels stolen from the crowns of kings, men's heads split in battle for the price of a night's drink. But through that I've searched and waited and hunted my prey. Suddenly Conan shifts upright, looking more sober than he did a moment ago.
CONAN (CONT'D): But drink? Haven't had a drop all night. The guards holding Conan up by his arms, suddenly find those arms wrapped around their heads. Twist, twist. SNAP. SNAP. He breaks both their necks in an instant. The Lieutenant is horrified. He goes for his sword. Conan bats it out of his hand, slamming his head against the back wall.
CONAN (CONT'D): The key to the cells.
LIEUTENANT: I don't have it. There's a guard inside the door. Only he can open it. Conan picks up the Lieutenant's sword.
LIEUTENANT (CONT'D): You can't kill me! He'll only open the door for me! A FLASH OF STEEL as Conan delivers a blow.
GUARD #1: What is it?
GUARD #1: Fine, fine. He opens the door-- Only to see Conan standing there, holding the decapitated head of the Lieutenant. The shocked Guard goes for his sword. Conan swings the Lieutenant's head, smashing it into the Guard's jaw and putting him down for the count. That's when the Captain of the Guard turns around. And WE RECOGNIZE HIM! He's LUCIUS, the disfigured Aquilionian who was one of Khalar Singh's lieutenants.
LUCIUS: Men!
LUCIUS (CONT'D): You've made a huge mistake, ape. You'll never make it out of this place.
CONAN: I came for you, Lucius. Lucius nods to the guards, who advance on Conan.
LUCIUS: You talk as though you know me, ape.
CONAN: I do. And I am no ape. I am Cimmerian. As recognition crosses Lucius' face, Conan springs into action. He KICKS the table at the men, sending the knives and other torture implements flying right into the first guard. The second guard tries leaping over the falling table. Conan just grabs him in midair and throws him even faster into the iron bands of the prisoner cells. Lucius lunges at Conan, Conan steps in on him, grabbing his sword hand. In a show of strength, he twists Lucius' own sword until points down at the floor, then THRUSTS IT THROUGH
CUT TO:: Lucius SCREAMS in pain as Conan pours water on the burning guard, and lifts the table back onto its legs. Then he pulls the sword out of the floor, a thick plume of blood rising out of Lucius' now liberated foot. Conan takes Lucius' face and smashes it against the table. Lucius looks, aghast, as Conan takes his injured hand and places it over the torch flame, searing the wound closed. The Cimmerian never even bats an eye.
LUCIUS: What do you want? Who are you? Conan turns his face to the burnt side.
CONAN: I'm the one who made you pretty.
LUCIUS: Impossible! You're dead! Conan shows Lucius the FIVE SCARS running down his forearm.
CONAN: No. I am death. And I came a long way for you. Conan lifts the sword.
LUCIUS: Wait!! Wait!!
(CONAN PAUSES): I can tell you where the rest are.
CONAN: Where?
LUCIUS: The end of the earth. You kill me, and you'll never find them.
CONAN: Who are you offering?
LUCIUS: Who do you think? All of them. Ukafa, Remo, Cheren, Akhun -- and Khalar Singh himself. But you have to swear you won't kill me. Conan thinks about it.
CONAN: You have my word. You tell me where I will find Khalar Singh, and I will not kill you. Conan lets Lucius go. Lucius hobbles to his chair.
LUCIUS: He is in a city called on the edge of the Eastern Sea. On the edge of Hyboria. Khor Khalba. Conan looks him in his eyes, sizing him up. He likes what he sees. In a flash, Conan grabs Lucius' head again, yanking it back, exposing his throat.
LUCIUS (CONT'D): You gave your word! Conan rips a SMALL KEY from a large keyring. He drops it in Lucius' throat. The big man chokes instantly. A second later, Conan pours ale from a flagon down his throat as well. Lucius swallows the key, gasping for breath as Conan releases him.
LUCIUS (CONT'D): What are you doing?!
CONAN: Toasting, to our deal. Conan swings his sword and cuts the One Eyed Prisoner from the wall.
CONAN (CONT'D): Go. You are free. One-Eye looks at his wrists and ankles, still hobbled by shackles.
ONE-EYED PRISONER: I won't get far like this.
CONAN: The key to your shackles sits in the Captain's gut. Happy hunting. The One-Eyed Prisoner grins with malice. As he closes in on the terrified Lucius, Conan heads for the door.
LUCIUS: Barbarian! I had your word! You said you would spare my life!
CONAN: No. I said I wouldn't kill you. We hear Lucius SCREAMS OF PAIN as Conan walks out into the night, cutting another notch into his arm.
UKAFA: Khalar Singh, we've lost half our cavalry legion, and still Fariq presses on! We must turn back!
KHALAR SINGH: He says the Queen is here.
UKAFA: He leads us in circles. He knows nothing of leading an army --
KHALAR SINGH: Take care, Ukafa. You hold a special place in my kingdom, but blood you are not.
UKAFA: My apologies, Khalar Singh. I am simply concerned for your army.
KHALAR SINGH: And I would gladly sacrifice every last man to get my hands on the Queen. And in that respect, Fariq has my confidence. He knows more of the legends of Acheron than anyone. Suddenly, two forms race at them from the blinding sand. REMO and FARIQ. No longer a child, Fariq is now a man in his twenties, but he is hardly the strong warrior his father is. His frame is slight, his eyes beady.
FARIQ: Father, they are here! The hidden oasis, just as it was written. Khalar Singh looks to Remo for confirmation. The misshapen and shadowy Remo nods.
TAMARA: Stop it! I'm trying to pray!
ILIRA: I'm bored.
TAMARA: Then hit yourself. Tamara hits Ilira back with her thorn. Ilira SQUEALS, then hits a grinning Tamara back. Tamara grabs her, but as they
FASSIR (CONT'D): I expect more from a queen.
ILIRA: I'm sorry, Fassir. I just tire of saying the same prayer every day.
FASSIR: Then you should be able to translate it from its original Acheronian. Ilira's face scrunches, unsure. Tamara steps in to help Ilira save face.
TAMARA: Of course she can. She even taught it to me. "Never again."
FASSIR: Go on.
TAMARA: Never again will we stand by as darkness consumes the world. Never again will innocents suffer for others' power. Never again will the Queen suffer so Acheron may rise.
FASSIR: Very good, Tamara. You must have taught her very well indeed, Ilira. A smile on Fassir's face confirms he knows the truth. Suddenly, the monastery's BELL RINGS OUT. A moment later, a temple EXPLODES in flames. Pouring out from the swirling sands come Khalar Singh's army. Cheren and his archers stand atop Khalar's
CHAOS: The monks scatter in every direction, but wherever they turn, more troops burst out of the swirling sand. A small handful of armed MONKS display acrobatic martial arts prowess as they battle with Khalar's heavily armed forces, but they are vastly outnumbered. Fassir grabs Tamara.
FASSIR (CONT'D): The Queen must not be captured. Take her out the North Gate. Quickly! Tamara grabs Ilira and pulls her through the flaming battleground. Zingaran warriors cut down the monks while Turanian horsemen concentrate on the women.
ILIRA: We can't leave them.
TAMARA: If you are caught, everything we live for is lost! WHIP! A whip encircles Ilira's waist. A massive TURANIAN pulls her to him. Tamara grabs the whip, pulling Ilira the other way. But she is no match for the huge slaver. He yanks on the whip pulling both of them to him --
REMO: No swords. Khalar needs them alive.
TAMARA: Good to know. Tamara lunges for the nearest shadow scout with her knife, but when she strikes, she hits nothing but shadow. It reforms behind her and grabs her. Another grabs Ilira. Tamara launches her body into the air, executing a backflip that puts her behind the shadow scout. A quick knife strike and he goes down. And with one continuous motion, she vaults over the shadow scout holding Tamara, cutting his throat as well. Remo and the remaining scout give chase, blending in and out of shadows. But each time they strike, Tamara defends Ilira. They near the far end of the alleyway, the North gate looming ahead with the desert beyond. Remo blends into another shadow --
REMO: The north gate. Destroy it. Cheren and the other archers turn their fire to the gate at the end of the passage. They fire a volley of fiery arrows.
TAMARA: Run!
ILIRA: We'll die!
TAMARA: We'll die if we stay! She locks eyes with Ilira, who nods. Together they run right for the arrows. But at the last minute, Ilira falters. She falls to the ground. Tamara turns to see Ilira lying in the gateway a moment too late. THE ARROWS EXPLODE causing a cave in that closes the gateway.
KHALAR SINGH: Who was guarding that gate?
REMO: It was I, Lord.
KHALAR SINGH: Take four legions. Hunt her. Before I hunt you.
SLAVER CARAVAN: The horse-drawn carts of the caravan are lined with iron bars, and behind the bars are a bevy of young women, mostly looking worse for wear. The HEAD SLAVER rides ahead, and walks up to the heap of white cloth that is Tamara.
TAMARA: Water -- please -- He lifts her barely conscious head, eyeing her features, a greasy paw examining her body. He smiles.
HEAD SLAVER: The gods are good. (to the other slavers) Chain this one in my cage. She'll be the prize of the auction in Khor Kalba.
KHALAR SINGH: All these years searching the ends of the earth. And here you are. Just a two day ride from Khor Kalba. I can scarcely believe it.
FASSIR: (in Acheronian, to monks) Say nothing.
KHALAR SINGH: Yes. Say nothing. Maybe he doesn't know who we are. Maybe he's not looking for the Queen. Several of the women look up at him, shocked.
FASSIR: You come for your own dark purposes, to raise Acheron.
KHALAR SINGH: Yes. I come to resurrect the greatest empire Hyboria has ever known.
FASSIR: An empire of evil, soaked in blood sacrifice and the blackest of magic. Khalar Singh becomes infuriated, eyes blazing.
KHALAR SINGH: Have you hidden from the world so long that you cannot to see? Blood, magic, death: it is everywhere. Acheron is no different than any other kingdom, but for its glory.
FASSIR: You would have all the world suffer, as you have suffered. We will die before we help you.
KHALAR SINGH: Yes. You will. He nods to his son. He paces in front of the female monks, the box in front of them.
FARIQ: The caves beneath Khor Khalba contain all manner of creature, many -- altered -- by centuries of blood magic. But one, in particular, has developed a special connection to the blood. A thirst. It is said that only the Queen of Acheron itself can resist its embrace. He stops, one woman away from Ilira.
FARIQ (CONT'D): So what say you? Will you be the lucky one, or will you tell me who is? A tear falls down her face, but she stays silent. There's the sound of SLITHERING as Fariq opens the box. She stares down inside the box --
TAMARA: She awakens to the SCREAMING of a whipped SLAVE GIRL.
SLAVE TRADER: Wake up, slags! Smile! A new owner approaches! Tamara makes eye contact with the Slave Trader.
TAMARA: Let me go. I promise you'll be rewarded. The Trader just laughs, leering at her.
SLAVE TRADER: And I would sample that reward, fair one, but you wear white.
(TURNS AWAY): Good day, sir! A lone rider in a desolate land. The perfect customer for what I sell.
CONAN: Rides out of the sun, his massive form silhouetted by the bright desert sky. He stares at the slave wagons.
SHEMISH WOMAN: Please, master! Your gold can free me from this hole! I can bring you
PLEASURE--: The Slave Trader immediately WHIPS her, incensed.
SLAVE TRADER: Silence whore! The Slaver goes to whip her again, but before the blow can fall, Conan grabs his arm. The Slave Trader looks furious, but Conan's size holds him back.
CONAN: Khor Kalba. Which way?
SLAVE TRADER: This is the road to Khor Kalba. Ahead. Past the Great Wall. The Slaver nods to the east and Conan releases his arm. The Slaver continues whipping the slave. Conan just rides on - - not his problem. But as Conan passes Tamara, for a brief moment their eyes meet. Something about her. Conan stares a moment, then spurs his horse on. Just then, the ground around them RUMBLES. Horses rear, the women SCREAM. Conan turns and looks up. His eyes go wide.
ENORMOUS BOULDERS: Coming thundering down the hills on all sides. The SLAVERS see them a moment to late. SLAM. Several of the horses and carts are smashed by the rolling boulders. Conan kicks his horse, trying to outrace the boulders. But when the wagon next to him is hit, its axle spears his horse in its side, and Conan goes down. Pissed, he draws his sword. The Slavers scramble around the broken wagons, in chaos. Only a pair of wagons still stands. One of them holds Tamara.
CONAN: Use your whips on the horses' legs! The Slavers are confused. Then they notice
TURANIAN HORSEMEN: racing down the hill, behind the boulders. As the riders bear down upon the slavers, the Slavers do as they're told, entangling the legs of the first wave of horses, throwing their riders. More than a few riders SNAP their necks as they're driven into the desert floor. The remainder fight hand to hand, and are cut down by either Conan's blade or the slavers' tulwars. But their victory is short lived -- As a SECOND WAVE OF RIDERS comes thundering towards them, before the Slavers can re-establish their perimeter. The riders start cutting the slavers down where they stand.
CONAN: Conan lodges his sword in a still-rolling boulder. As it rolls, it pulls him up on top of it. From this height, Conan launches himself down at the horsemen below. WHAM! He knocks a rider off his horse, Conan landing square in the saddle. He kicks the horse straight at the other riders. They don't see him coming until it's too late. He cuts them down where they sit. The last remaining CARAVAN DRIVER whips his horse team, trying to pull his wagon out of the fight. Conan spins to see a FLASH of steel and the rider's neck plumes in blood as he's decapitated.
REMO: The explanation comes as the shadow behind the driver MORPHS into Remo, the spindly Shadow Scout. He takes the reins, stopping the wagon. Conan spots him, recognition in his eyes.
CONAN (CONT'D): You! There's a SCREAM. Conan turns to see the other two SHADOW SCOUTS already hacking their way through the slaves on one of the caged wagons. A Shadow Scout gets to Tamara, only to have her FIGHT BACK. Tamara kicks the first Scout in the face, slamming his head into the bars. However, the second one clubs her unconscious from behind.
CONAN: Leaps from his horse, launching his body at Remo. Remo dives and rolls away. Small and misshapen, he is nonetheless very fast. Conan strikes again. Again Remo dodges out of the way. The Shadow Scouts draw swords, but Remo waves them off, speaking in the broken language of a savage.
REMO: The girl! Bring her to Khalar! Conan launches an all out attack. Remo leaps over his sword and vaults Conan, landing on his back. He draws his sword, preparing to cut Conan's throat -- When Conan hurls his body backwards, into one of the huge rolling boulders. The impact crushes Remo and he loses his grip. Conan spins to strike again, only to see Remo MELT INTO THE
TAMARA: Dazed, she struggles to her feet. Conan appears beside her, his dagger out. Tamara gasps in fear but Conan only reaches out and breaks the lock on her chains.
CONAN: Who are you?
TAMARA: I am nobody. He cuts the bonds on her feet. Tamara rises up, the battle scene revealed to her. Dead bodies of the Slavers and Turanian horsemen lie sprawled in every direction. Tamara takes in the gruesome sight, shocked.
CONAN: Many died to capture nobody. (motions to his horse) Get up.
TAMARA: And if I don't wish to ride with you?
TAMARA: Stop! I want water. Conan just keeps riding.
CONAN: Perhaps the slavers took your orders. I don't.
TAMARA: I never knew men could be so cruel. Now I wonder if the world is filled with animals such as you.
CONAN: You speak of animals as if they were less than men. But animals don't stab their brothers in the back or steal their mother's only possession. And they never lie.
TAMARA: I haven't lied. Conan get off his horse, unties Tamara and gives her a water sack. Tamara greedily drinks down the water.
CONAN: Very well. Give me your name.
TAMARA: I am Tamara Amelia Karushan. And you?
CONAN: I am Conan.
TAMARA: Conan? That's it?
CONAN: What more names do I need? Conan then grabs Tamara around her waist, putting her atop his horse. He then mounts behind her, their bodies close. Conan's mouth is only inches from her ear as he speaks.
CONAN (CONT'D): There is only one truth I need from you, Tamara Amelia Karushan. Why does Khalar Singh want you? Tamara looks away, but doesn't respond.
CONAN (CONT'D): Then let's hope it's for your cooking.
CONAN: Trying to poison me? Tamara steps back and gets down on her knees, her hands clasped.
CONAN (CONT'D): What are you doing?
TAMARA: Before we eat, I must pray.
CONAN: Crom! What would you pray for? That a bone may not get stuck in your throat? No words nor gods will give you one more moment than fate allows you.
TAMARA: Then you have no faith. And I am sorry for you.
CONAN: I need no pity.
TAMARA: But you do. You live in a world that is harsh and short. Where fate is unyielding and hope is a cruel joke. I live in a world with a purpose that guides me, where faith sustains me. Suddenly, Conan KICKS DIRT PAST TAMARA, ONTO THE FIRE. The fire goes out, plunging everything into darkness.
TAMARA (CONT'D): Why did you-- Suddenly, there's the sound of FIGHTING. Grunting, blows being interchanged, then a LOUD SNAP AS BONES ARE BROKEN. A moment later, the flames of the fire are stoked up again, revealing Conan standing over the groaning REMO. The other two SHADOW SCOUTS are dead. Tamara instinctively jumps back.
CONAN: Don't worry. His back is broken. He won't be slinking away this time. As Tamara gapes at Remo, Conan simply pulls the cooking pot off the fire.
CONAN (CONT'D): Now, let's eat.
TAMARA: But -- what about him?! Remo GROANS in pain.
CONAN: I enjoy a little music with my meal.
ACHERONIAN WARRIORS: Towering over the slaves, the warriors are a fearsome sight. Their armor, crafted from the bones of their defeated enemies, rises to a mask which covers much of their features.
ACHERONIAN PYRAMID: Up ahead looms a colossal pyramid, surrounded in a semi- circle by five massive statues. As we grow closer the grotesque surface of the pyramid becomes clearer, one hewn from cracked bone and empty sockets. The thunderous heartbeat seems all around us now. THUMP,
REMO: Please! Mercy!
CONAN: You are more fit to inflict torture than to endure it. Your life is not nailed to your spine as my peoples are. We PULL OUT, revealing that Remo arms are spread-eagle, attached to ropes pulled taught by opposing tree limbs. Conan nudges him with the point of his sword. Remo SCREAMS in agony, then speaks in his savage, broken dialect.
REMO: Stop! Stop! I know how make you rich! Rich! You hear name Khalar Singh? You have what he want. The girl, yes? Khalar give you anything for her. More!
CONAN: Why would he? Remo pauses, not wanting to answer. Conan put the blade back to Remo's neck.
REMO: She could be the one.
CONAN: One what?
REMO: The one. The Queen. Conan's mind races, remembering Khalar's words from long ago.
CONAN: A queen in hiding.
REMO: Yes! Yes! I sent to find her. Bring her. He wait for me now, at Great Wall. He pay you anything. More!
CONAN: So I should ransom her to your master? Not exactly loyal -- but still, a good idea. Conan pulls out a sheet of handwritten paper from Remo's tunic.
CONAN (CONT'D): You'll help me deliver it.
REMO: Please! Please! I help you! I do anything you wish! Conan stuffs a parchment in his mouth. He takes out his sword and cuts another NOTCH into his arm.
CONAN: Good. Die. He then cuts the rope and WHOOSH! The catapult fires tossing Remo and the rock he's tied to high into the night sky.
KHALAR: Stares down at Remo's broken body. Ukafa and Fariq stand beside him.
KHALAR SINGH: He brought a message? Ukafa hands him the bloodied parchment. Khalar reads it.
UKAFA: I'll find them -- and come back with their heads.
FARIQ: You let the girl escape once, Ukafa. What makes you think you can do better now?
UKAFA: I did what?
FARIQ: I found the monastery. It was my understanding that you were in charge of its capture -- Ukafa's anger grows.
KHALAR SINGH: Enough! We will take no chances. We will pay this thief what he wants, and more.
TAMARA: She's tied up and gagged and she's wormed her way this far, muddying and scraping herself all along the way. She lets out a frustrated grunt as Conan simply picks her back up and carries her back to the outcropping.
CONAN: Here. Eat. Tamara squirms away from the carcass, disgusted.
TAMARA: Couldn't you at least cook it first?
CONAN: Fire draws attention. Conan tears into his rabbit, chewing on the raw meat.
TAMARA: Does it bother you, blood on your hands?
CONAN: The only blood on these hands I claimed with my own sword.
TAMARA: What does that mean?
CONAN: Clean hands mean nothing. Kings and Queens claim more lives than I will ever meet, and not a drop is spilled in their presence.
TAMARA: What are you talking about? I've done no harm to you. I've done no harm to anyone. Conan confronts her, enraged.
CONAN: You lie. You are the very reason my people are dead.
TAMARA: Are you mad? I never met your people.
CONAN: But Khalar Singh has. He destroyed my people, looking for you. Suddenly Tamara understands.
TAMARA: The one who came for us? His name is Khalar Singh?
CONAN: You know this.
TAMARA: We did not know who sought us, only that we were sought.
CONAN: You hid from him. And while you did, others died in your place.
TAMARA: If we did not hide, countless more would have been killed! You do not know what purpose he has for our queen.
CONAN: And I do not care, for he will not live to see it bear fruit! Tamara is shocked.
TAMARA: Wait -- you seek to kill this Khalar? We have the same aim. He takes my queen to Khor Kalba. I have sworn an oath to protect her. I can help you.
CONAN: Enough lies. Conan puts the gag back in her mouth and binds her hands.
CONAN: You will keep quiet.
TAMARA: What use is talking? You won't believe a word I speak. I only want to know this -- how will you kill Khalar? You are too big to play the assassin.
CONAN: You will be the lure that will draw me close. Then I will scale the wall and cut him down where he stands.
TAMARA: And the archers and cavalry? They will be napping?
CONAN: They will not be a problem. Tamara thinks about it.
TAMARA: No. Not good enough. Conan is shocked by her brazen response.
CONAN: Did I ask?
TAMARA: Should you fail, I'll be left without a weapon, helpless in my enemies hands. Let me help, Conan. Conan responds by putting the gag back in her mouth.
CONAN: I will not fail. But still Tamara glares at him -- and we can see the hint of Conan's resolve bending.
FARIQ: Let me take care of this thief, father. He's beneath your notice.
KHALAR SINGH: He killed Remo, likely his cavalry legion as well. Whatever he is, he is more than a mere thief. Then, off in the distance, at the far edge of the desert clearing, two figures step out from amongst the boulders.
CONAN: Be still! Conan thrusts Tamara in Khalar's direction.
CONAN (CONT'D): (yelling to Khalar) I have what you want! Where's my gold?!
KHALAR: Khalar reaches down and lifts a heavy sack of gold coins.
KHALAR SINGH: Triple your price. Come and claim it.
CONAN: Send the gold. Khalar Singh throws the gold sack. It lands halfway between them. He sends Tamara ahead, her mouth gagged. But the moment Tamara reaches the gold -- From out underneath the sand, FOUR HORSEMEN rise up out of the desert floor. They each bear weighted nets and spiked lances, and they surround Conan.
KHALAR: Smiles. He's got Tamara by the neck.
KHALAR SINGH: You're fast. But are you fast enough? Conan's eyes go to the top of the wall, where CHEREN and his archer prepare to fire. Conan rushes forward as the flaming arrows stream toward him. EXPLOSIONS rip through the air where Conan was, throwing up a huge dust cloud. Conan bursts out of the dust cloud, lunging in an attack. But Khalar Singh is not there. He has withdrawn inside the gates. Baring his teeth, Conan runs at the wall itself. Cheren and the archers let loose another volley at Conan, who evades and strikes away the falling arrows with his sword. Explosions fill the air, but none of them scorch Conan as he
WALL WALK: Conan leaps upon wall walk, the passageway atop the Great Wall.
FARIQ: Tries to hide his surprise. Even as he draws his sword, Conan takes out the four SOLDIERS in his way.
FARIQ: You should have run, while you could. Conan looks at the sword. It strikes a chord in him. IT IS THE SWORD HIS FATHER FORGED! Enraged, Conan charges the slight Fariq. Fariq partially parries the attack. He's obviously well- trained, but he's no match for Conan. The tip of Conan' blade cuts a large gash in Fariq's cheek.
KHALAR SINGH: Fariq! Khalar Singh arrives, grabbing his son by his collar and flinging him away from the barbarian. Fariq struggles to stand, trying in vain to hide his embarrassment. Conan and Khalar Singh size each other up on the narrow wall walk.
CONAN: I was wondering what it would take for you to stop cowering.
KHALAR SINGH: I wasn't cowering. I was studying. You're quite gifted with a sword, but it's not from schooling. Your speed and power makes up for a lack of -- finesse. I've seen such fighting before -- Cimmerian. Enraged, Conan charges Khalar Singh. He swings down on Khalar Singh's head, only when the sword reaches it, it finds nothing but air. Khalar is fast.
TAMARA' HANDS: Between the bonds she slips down a blade. It's CONAN'S DAGGER. She quickly cuts her bonds. With all the attention focused on Conan, no one is quick enough to stop her as GRABS THE TORCH FROM THE SOLDIER,
CHEREN: No!! But it's far too late. Tamara hits the floor, beside Conan.
EXPLOSION: The blast sends parts of Cheren flying in every direction. Ukafa, Fariq, and the wall guards are flattened by the concussion. Khalar Singh, who was standing closer to the explosion, is
KHALAR SINGH: The warlord slowly rises, his head pounding from the explosion. He looks up. The entire parapet is on fire. He grits his teeth and climbs the wall.
KHALAR SINGH: Ukafa, you will take half our forces North, to the Sea. I will take the rest South.
FARIQ: What of me, father?
KHALAR SINGH: You will return to Khor Kalba. You will feed the women to the beast until you find our Queen.
FARIQ: I will not. I will track the barbarian with you -- Enraged, Khalar Singh grabs him by the back of his head, pulling him in close.
KHALAR SINGH: You think I care what you wish?! You want to play warrior? It is not in you. One day you will be king, but warlord, never.
FARIQ: I can. Let me prove it to you!
KHALAR SINGH: You will not risk your life again. You are my line, my successor. You will not throw away all that I have worked for. A smile creeps up on Ukafa's face, watching Fariq's embarrassment. He withdraws hastily, all eyes on him.
OUT LOGS--: But when he hands them to his father, he notices his father is covered with sword wounds, cut and bleeding.
CORIN (CONT'D): What are you waiting for? The fire is dying. Conan turns back to the wood pile. Instead of wood, the pile is full of the bodies of those he recently killed: Lucius, Remo, etc. The young Conan struggles to push the first body onto the forge. Still the fire diminishes. Conan turns and there is no more wood. And no more bodies.
CONAN: It's not enough. I've failed you father.
CORIN: It will never be enough, Conan.
CONAN: I don't understand -- He spins. Behind him TAMARA stands, a look of sadness on her face.
CORIN: Through suffering, you will learn your purpose, boy. And you have not begun to suffer yet.
TAMARA: I wouldn't move so fast. I bound your wounds as best I could, but I'm no healer. Conan looks over to discover Tamara sitting nearby.
CONAN: Where am I?
TAMARA: On the Wasp. You told me where it laid, just before you passed out. Though I can't say as I feel much safer here. Conan's response is to rise again, his face contorting in pain.
TAMARA (CONT'D): Don't embarrass me with thanks, I only saved your life.
CONAN: You were -- adequate. Conan pulls aside one of the thick draperies that surround his bed. Behind it lies a staircase, which he ascends.
ARTUS: Look what we have here. A hill ape in over his head. Conan spins to see the rough, brightly dressed Zamoran pirate ARTUS leaping down from the quarterdeck, his sword out. The other ZAMORAN PIRATES draw near as well. Tamara sees the scene, suddenly uncomfortable.
CONAN: I was just wondering what that smell was. (sniffs near Artus) Now I know.
ARTUS: We take no stowaways. Only paying passengers. You've best be laden with gold.
CONAN: If it's metal you seek, perhaps you'd settle for steel.
CONAN (CONT'D): Still fast Artus.
ARTUS: Fast, deadly, charming, rakishly handsome. (to the pirates) All hail Conan!
PIRATES: All hail Conan! Artus slaps his hand on Conan's back and Conan winces in pain.
ARTUS: Sorry, friend. Looks like you've had a rough road.
CONAN: It won't get easier. Khalar Singh lives. He'll be coming for me and the girl.
ARTUS: Good. We're scrapping for a fight these days.
CONAN: This one may be more than you wish. I need you to get me close to Khor Kalba. Artus rubs his beard.
ARTUS: Rest up. We'll get you there. Conan withdraws to his room.
TAMARA: We go to Khor Kalba?
CONAN: I do.
TAMARA: No. We do.
CONAN: Just leave me to sleep. But Tamara doesn't leave, forcing Conan to respond.
CONAN (CONT'D): You would risk your life for royalty? Why? Tamara pauses, realizing she must trust Conan to gain his help.
TAMARA: Because she represent freedom, not just ours but all Hyboria's. What do you know of Acheron?
CONAN: A tall tale. Meant to scare children.
TAMARA: It is no fable. It's my people's history. Acheron was an empire that swallowed all of Hyboria, led by the King and his legion of demon warriors. Unstoppable. Insatiable. Immortal. But still it had one weakness. For the true power of Acheron laid not with its King, but the Queen. Every twenty years, a new queen from the royal line would be coronated with a crown of iron. Spikes would pierce her, slowly drain her precious blood, and through her suffering Acheron would remain invincible. Until one of my ancestors, an Acheronian himself, put a stop to this tyranny. He and others spirited the new Queen away, hiding her from the empire and all those who would raise it again.
CONAN: What care I for queens and empires? Conan turns to head back to his bed. Tamara grabs him, incensed.
TAMARA: Didn't you hear me? This evil faces us all. All of civilization will fall if the army of Acheron is raised again.
CONAN: I heard. Only I would happily put all of your "civilization" to the torch myself.
TAMARA: But -- you owe me a debt, you thankless oaf!
CONAN: My only debt is to my people. And it still lies unpaid.
SAILOR: It was a pirate ship. They left as soon as the girl and the large one boarded.
KHALAR SINGH: Which way did they sail?
SAILOR: North. Khalar is surprised.
KHALAR SINGH: Are you certain?
SAILOR: Yes, please, I'm telling you the truth! Khalar nods to one of his men, who slits the Sailor's throat. Khalar turns to his FALCONER, with the huge bird of prey on his arm.
KHALAR SINGH: Send word to Ukafa. They come to him by sea. The Falconer nods and heads off. Khalar looks to his soldiers.
ARTUS: Try not to taste it going down would be my advice.
TAMARA: You've known Conan long?
ARTUS: We sailed with him for a while. I would like to say I know the man.
TAMARA: He is a riddle to me.
ARTUS: Aye, he's that too.
TAMARA: We have the same goal. Why will he not trust me?
ARTUS: Why would he? He's a stranger in every land he trods. A man with no home, no people, none but the company of ghosts. And he bears the weight of their deaths every moment of every day.
TAMARA: That is no way to live.
ARTUS: He doesn't live. I've seen in him great mirth, only to watch it smothered by greater melancholy. He owes a blood debt, and he can entertain no other joy, no other cause, until it is fulfilled.
TAMARA: And yet you call him friend, and risk death to help him.
ARTUS: Let me tell you something of Conan. He will never lie. He will never break a trust, once given. And he will never, ever give up.
TAMARA: He's a stubborn ass. Artus LAUGHS.
ARTUS: He is that, lass. He is that.
FARIQ: Here we stand again. Will the queen reveal herself, or must another innocent suffer? Fariq walks past the row of women, each recoiling. He slaps one. Then another, his rage only building.
FARIQ (CONT'D): My father, he tires of your charade. He grows impatient. But I have no such haste. I enjoy watching you squirm.
FARIQ (CONT'D): Perhaps you'd like to see the end your sisters faced back at the monastery? Fariq slowly opens the box before her.
ACHERONIAN BOX: In the darkness of the box slithers a grotesque TENTACLE. The tentacle is severed, but still alive, thirsting for blood. Terrified as she is, the young monk says nothing. Fariq closes the box.
FARIQ (CONT'D): No? Your fear is not enough yet? Let's try harder. Fariq nods to the slavers, who unchain her from the rest.
FARIQ (CONT'D): I've read all there is to know of mighty Acheron. Why would true Acheronians protect a traitor to their own? You once held the entire world in your grasp, now you hide and cower like pitiful mice. He pushes the girl. She falls to the grid, the sound echoing down into the pit. AN INHUMAN GROWL emits from the darkness. Something comes. The girl looks below.
FARIQ (CONT'D): And mice are meant to be swallowed whole. Suddenly, a MASSIVE TENTACLE, ten times the size of the one in the box, comes hurtling up through the grid. It grabs the young monk, its barbs ripping into her, dragging her into the darkness below. Her SCREAMS echo.
FARIQ (CONT'D): What was in the box could only drink from you one at a time. But the beast of Acheron, it will claim four of you this night.
FARIQ (CONT'D): Who will spare the rest and tell me which of you is the queen? Not a single woman moves, resolved. Ilira catches herself, but also stays silent. She looks up to see Fariq staring at her.
FEMALE MONK: I am the one you seek. Fariq smiles.
FARIQ: At last. Some bravery. But of course, you wouldn't expect me to take your word, would you? As the Fariq reaches for her--
TAMARA: No!!! Tamara looks around with a panicked look, until she realizes where she is.
TAMARA: You're drinking? You were near death this time yesterday.
CONAN: Is there a better reason to drink? Tamara actually manages to LAUGH.
TAMARA: Do you think--I could try some of that? I'm curious of its taste.
CONAN: You've never tasted mead? Tamara shrugs, embarrassed. Conan hands her flask. She takes a deep swallow, some spilling out over her cheeks. But she doesn't cough, and smiles brightly afterwards.
TAMARA: It's good. Conan reaches for the flask, but Tamara ignores him, taking another swig. It quickly loosens her tongue.
TAMARA (CONT'D): Let me ask you something. Once you've killed Khalar and claimed your vengeance, then what? You will be free from your ghosts. What of your future, Conan?
CONAN: I have no future. It died with my people, as I should have.
TAMARA: So your life is penance? For what, for living? And when you too die, what do you believe happens then? Conan just shrugs, taking back the mead.
CONAN: Nothing. Tamara, her tongue loosened by drink, laughs.
TAMARA: Nothing? I couldn't live without some kind of belief in the world after this.
CONAN: I believe in the cold of steel, the warmth of flesh. All else is fairy tales.
TAMARA: Perhaps. But I still die with faith in my heart, belief in something greater than one's self. What will you die with?
CONAN: Purpose. I die with purpose.
TAMARA'S POV: THE RIVER IS FILLED WITH BODIES! Bloated, they float in blood red water as flies buzz around them. One of them hits the hull of the boat. THUMP. Tamara blinks, unsure if the vision is real -- but then she's joined by other PIRATES who gape at the bodies below.
PIRATE 1: To stations! To stations! Tamara turns and up ahead spies --
BLACK WARSHIP: The larger warship cuts through the water, manned by a legion of rowers. On the deck of the warship, UKAFA and his SPEARMEN stand. The SAILORS get the most out of the billowing black sails. The ship gains fast.
THE GALLEY: Conan exits his room, sees the danger. Artus appears at his side.
ARTUS: What do you think? They have us outnumbered, but we might beat their speed.
CONAN: That is what they wish. They drive us to another force, approaching from the south.
ARTUS: Then we fight?
CONAN: No. We give them what they think they want. (to the Pirates) About ship! Now! The pirates leap into action, tacking and turning the galley with great speed and efficiency.
THE WARSHIP: Ukafa smiles, his gold teeth shining. The ship's CAPTAIN stands beside him.
CAPTAIN: They're turning to run.
UKAFA: Good. We only need stay close.
THE GALLEY: Is turned around now, fleeing. ARCHERS from the Warship fire arrows that barely reach the Galley. The Pirates dodge the few that land on deck. Tamara reaches Conan and Artus. She's worried to say the least.
ARTUS: And now?
CONAN: Let us show them why she is called the Wasp. Artus smiles. He was hoping Conan would say that.
TAMARA: Why is she called the Wasp?
ARTUS: Open astern! Load the stinger! The Pirates rush to the back of the ship.
CAPTAIN: They are doing -- something. Sure enough, the stern of the ship begins to part, revealing -
CONAN: Fire! They fire the weapon. The harpoon races for the bow of the Warship, a thick rope trailing it. It smashes into the wood, ripping through it like it was paper.
CONAN (CONT'D): Rip her apart! The Pirates grab the heavy rope and run, pulling the rope, and the harpoon back towards the Wasp. As it's pulled out, the barbs of the harpoon rip a wider hole in the warship.
WARSHIP: The Captain and crew are in a panic. Men rush to patch the gaping hole in the hull.
SAILOR: We're taking on water!
CAPTAIN: Hard to port!
UKAFA: No. Let them fire again!
CAPTAIN: We will sink. Ukafa guts the captain with his spear.
UKAFA: So be it. (to his spearmen) Get below. Be ready.
GALLEY: The pirates load the harpoon in the crossbow device a second time.
CONAN: Fire! It fires, smashing again into the wooden hull of the Warship.
UKAFA: Now! They rush forward and grab onto the harpoon.
ARTUS: Bring her back! Again, the pirates pull the harpoon back out. It falls into the water as they pull on the rope tied to it. They do not notice Ukafa and his dozen spearmen clasping the very same rope as its pulled toward the Galley. Artus looks at the Warship. It's foundering and sinking quickly.
ARTUS (CONT'D): She's dead in the water! A CHEER goes up among the pirates -- And then one PIRATE takes a spear through the chest. All eyes turn to the side of the Wasp, where Ukafa and his men climb aboard. Conan's eyes alight with fury.
CONAN: Good. I was growing weary with boredom. Conan motions to a pair of pirates.
CONAN (CONT'D): Hide her below.
BATTLE: The Spearmen rush to the attack. The pirates spring to the defense of the ship, countering the Spearmen with cutlass and dagger. Ukafa marshals his men as a fierce battle rages.
UKAFA: Find the girl! The Spearmen quickly make their way to the interior of the galley, throwing the dead bodies of the pirates overboard.
CONAN: Conan grabs the nearby jib, swings over, and plants both feet in the face of one of the spearmen, knocking him over the side.
ARTUS: The sea captain proves dangerous in his own right, grabbing the head of one of the Spearmen and violently pulling it down to the gunwale of the ship, impaling the Spearman's eye on a handspike.
UKAFA: The massive warrior shows incredible speed as well, dodging one cutlass attack only to turn the weapon upon another pirate.
CONAN: The Cimmerian cuts through a Spearman, his gaze focused on Ukafa. Ukafa stares right back as he runs through a pair of pirates. Finally, the two warriors stand only feet apart. The two warriors eye each other with satisfaction. Ukafa's frightening, sharpened gold teeth shine as he smiles.
UKAFA (CONT'D): We are each the last of our tribe, Cimmerian. Yours dies this day. Conan responds by lunging forward, swinging his sword in a broad arc. Ukafa is just as quick, stepping back and allowing his spear to block the swing. Ukafa whirls the war spear in great circles, forcing Conan to parry, stepping back beyond the spear's reach. The two powerful warriors trade blows back and forth, neither able to gain the advantage.
UKAFA (CONT'D): Your head will top my spear today, but know Khalar's pig son will soon share your fate. Ukafa tries to spear Conan through the chest, and Conan decides to drop his sword, grabbing the spear as it passes by him. Conan then pulls on the spear, throwing Ukafa off his balance, towards Conan. Conan then kicks the warrior in the chest, hurtling Ukafa backwards. Now Conan turns the spear on its master. Ukafa, unarmed, is forced to backpedal as Conan thrusts the spear at him. A pair of close misses leaves Ukafa with gashes on his chest and arm, but he manages to knock the spear from Conan's hands. The battle goes to hand-to-hand. It's primal, each of them covered in blood. Ukafa bear hugs Conan, then resorts to using his teeth to bite into Conan's shoulder. Conan YELLS IN PAIN, butting Ukafa's head and knocking him back. Conan falls to the stern of the ship, his back against the harpoon crossbow. Ukafa shakes off the head butt, and sees his spear nearby. He picks it up.
UKAFA (CONT'D): Now finally, you die. He raises up to hurl the spear through Conan, only to see Conan manning the harpoon, NOW TURNED TO FACE UKAFA. The crossbow fires and the harpoon punches a massive hole through Ukafa, its momentum throwing him off the galley, into the sea beyond.
TAMARA: She hides inside a small compartment of the ship. She hears FOOTSTEPS walking past, then returning. An ARM suddenly reaches in and grabs her. As she's pulled out, Tamara SCREAMS right in Conan's face. He doesn't even flinch.
CONAN: Time to go.
ARTUS: I could get you closer. Another half day along the coast --
CONAN: I need you head west, to draw off our pursuers. I'll find another path to Khor Kalba.
ARTUS: So be it. Swift wind at your backs.
TAMARA: So you are taking me with you to Khor Kalba.
CONAN: I never said that. But I won't leave a virgin onboard a pirate ship, alone.
TAMARA: I -- but -- who said I was a virgin? Conan just shakes his head as a parting fog reveals a large Colossus head, the fallen remains of an enormous statue, lying agape on the shoreline.
CONAN: We'll rest here until morning.
TAMARA: Will I awake alone? Do you intend to leave me?
CONAN: I would do you a kindness. Khor Kalba will bring only death.
TAMARA: Please, Conan. Artus told me of how you lost your tribe. I too had to watch as my people were taken from me. Conan ignores her, gathering wood for a fire.
TAMARA (CONT'D): All I ask is that you let me travel with you. I too have a purpose. I must get to the queen. I would rather you kill me here, than fail her again. Conan continues collecting, infuriating Tamara.
TAMARA (CONT'D): I was wrong about you. You are no fearless warrior. Your heart is closed to all but fear -- and hate. Conan draws flint, starting the fire. Only once his task is complete does he answer Tamara.
CONAN: We leave at dawn. I will not break stride for you. Not once. I will get you into Khor Kalba. Beyond that I have my purpose, and you yours. Tamara offers a thankful nod, her anger subsiding.
TAMARA: Nice fire. Does it mean you'll actually cook the meat this time?
CAPTAIN: The pirate ship sailed to the west. Even under full sail it'll be no easy task to overtake her. Just then, a FALCON approaches. The Falconer retrieves it, a parchment tied to its talon. He passes it on to Khalar Singh. Khalar Singh reads it, a smile creeping upon his face.
KHALAR SINGH: Fariq has done well. (to the Captain) Head east, back to Khor Kalba.
CAPTAIN: But our chase points the other way.
KHALAR SINGH: The chase is over. They come to me now.
A BOAR: Its ears listen intently, aware. Suddenly, it bolts.
CONAN: Is just as quick, racing through the forest on a intercepting course with the great beast. He leaps over a fallen log, throwing his dagger with a sweep of his arm. The boar goes down, the blade through its jugular. Conan walks up to the struggling beast, showing no satisfaction as he mercifully SNAPS its neck.
TAMARA: What were the women of your tribe like, Conan?
CONAN: They fought beside the men.
TAMARA: So they were equals. And your mother?
CONAN: She died in battle, even as I was born.
TAMARA: So you never knew her. It was the same with me. I've always known being a mother was somehow not my fate. But-- Tamara falters, unsure. But Conan's quiet eases her.
TAMARA (CONT'D): You said earlier Khor Kalba will bring only death. Were you trying to scare me, or do you really believe our end lies there?
CONAN: I don't lie. Tamara nods, having heard as much about Conan. She turns back to face him, no longer hiding her body.
TAMARA: Then we don't have much time. Your mother perished too young, but at least she died having known the touch of one who cared. Tamara steps closer to Conan.
TAMARA (CONT'D): So -- do you care, Conan? Conan rises to her, his broad form looming over her slight build.
LOVE SCENE: Conan lies atop Tamara by the fire, their sinewy limbs intertwined, fingers locked together. He thrusts into her, causing her face to contort in pleasure and pain. The fire grows brighter as Tamara rolls on top, undulating as their pace quickens. Tamara CRIES OUT in ecstasy.
AFTERMATH: Tamara stares into the fire, her body wrapped around Conan's. She gently caresses the notched scars cut into his arm.
TAMARA (CONT'D): I've only ever heard you speak of what you'd die for, Conan. What would you live for? Conan, his eyes closed, keeps them shut.
CONAN: Do you ever tire of talking? Let me rest, woman. Tamara reaches down between Conan's legs. His eyes open.
TAMARA: I thought that may work. Conan growls and pulls himself atop Tamara. Looking down at her face, her hair loose and wild, she's beautiful in the soft glow of the firelight.
TAMARA (CONT'D): I see you clearly now, finally, after all this time. (she kisses him deeply) I would be that which you live for, Conan, if you would have me. You may have faith in nothing, Conan -- but I have faith in you. Conan lowers himself back down upon her.
KHOR KALBA: Surrounded on three sides by the coastline, the stone fortress of Khalar Singh rests on a plateau, overlooking a bustling, tented city below. Conan spots a long CARAVAN of packed camels working their way towards town, driven by DESERT TRADERS from Shem.
CONAN: We'll slip in, along with those traders. But you'll need a change of clothes, those monks' robes will draw attention. Tamara looks down at her loose-fitting robes.
TAMARA: What will I wear?
TAMARA: Tamara is dressed like a Shemish serving girl, her taut body barely covered by silken drapings. She glares at Conan, miserable.
TAMARA: I don't understand why I couldn't be dressed as you are. I look like a whore.
CONAN: And what better disguise for a monk? Conan tugs on the rope for the camel to move faster. The Camel BRAYS and rears. Conan yanks harder and the camel flies forward, its eyes wide. Conan meets its eye.
CONAN (CONT'D): Do not test me, beast.
TAMARA: Is there not a living thing you can be at peace with? They ride into the city, past the troops.
STRANGER: A FIGURE, his form hidden beneath a cloak, spots Conan and Tamara as they enter, and begins to follow them.
WOODEN PLATFORM: The city ends at the sheer cliff wall at the bottom of the plateau. There stands a WOODEN PLATFORM that is lowered by a massive winch, unloading a cavalry regiment and then raising back up to the fortress above.
CONAN: It's probably only way into Khalar's fortress. I'm sure it is heavily guarded at all times, day and night.
TAMARA: So we must try to scale the cliff.
CONAN: And dodge arrows as we do so? Conan motions up to the winch. Standing beside it are a half dozen of the four-armed ARCHERS.
CONAN (CONT'D): During the day, we'd easily be spotted on the climb. And it would be useless to even attempt at night. No, we must find another way.
STRANGER'S POV: As Conan continues around the base of the mesa, the Figure following Conan is joined by TWO OTHERS.
ALLEYWAY: Conan and Tamara reach a less crowded area of the village when a VOICE rings out behind them.
CONAN: Thieves. You'll regret finding me.
CONAN: What? Do you wish to join in?
CUT TO:: Conan cleans mead from his face, scowling at Tamara, as the One-Eyed Thief uses the tabletop to explain the fortress.
CONAN: So that's it?
TAMARA: Catacombs? You mean sewers.
CONAN: What is it?
TAMARA: A warning. These catacombs are connected to the sea. It says that the beasts of Acheron protect its secrets.
CONAN: Not from me. Conan presses on, into the darkness.
TAMARA: Where now?
CONAN: Around. Up. Conan heads off one direction, leaving Tamara to navigate the other half. Her torch illuminates the grizzly path ahead. She inhales deeply and takes her first step.
CONAN: Following the slick wall, he passes many DEAD BODIES, but only one catches his eye. He stops before it.
DEAD WARRIOR: Nothing more than a skeleton, picked clean by the rats. But he still bears his leather armor, and a horned helmet that resembles his father's own. Conan takes the helmet and places it on his head. It fits perfectly.
TAMARA: Tamara is gingerly making her way through the knee high sewage water and the dead bodies submerged within.
TAMARA: Oh!!! Tamara leaps up, swinging the torch down towards the water. Conan, nearby, unsheathes his sword.
CONAN: What?
TAMARA: Something touched me. Something slimy. Conan walks over, the torchlight revealing something on Tamara's leg. It's a SLUG, which he flicks off.
CONAN: Crom! Stop wasting time. But when Conan steps forward, something ROILS THE WATER right before him. He spots a HUGE TENTACLE just before its submerges back into the water.
CONAN (CONT'D): Crom indeed. Then Tamara SCREAMS as another tentacle rises up from the water, wrapping around her waist. Tamara grabs hold of the wall as the tentacle tries to pull her underwater. Conan immediately SLASHES the tentacle, pulling Tamara away. The squirming decapitated tentacle squirts black blood everywhere, the knee high water seems to come alive with roiling intensity. Conan spins, finding a circular stone staircase tiled into the far cistern wall.
CONAN (CONT'D): Let's go.
TAMARA: What is that? Up ahead, the torch-lined dungeon plunges into darkness as the torches end. Conan holds up his own torch, struggling to peer into the black void.
CONAN: Nothing good. Conan takes a step forward when suddenly a POWERFUL WIND blows out his torch. A moment later, there's the sound of A
AKHUN: Which ever one of you slaves gets me the girl, lives. The Combatants all close in on Conan and Tamara, each taking a different plank way to get to them.
CONAN: Stay behind me. Tamara steps behind Conan, who blocks the others' path to her.
CONAN (CONT'D): Who dies first? The first two COMBATANTS attack as one, the first wielding a short sword, the other a pike. The pikeman thrusts first, Conan deftly stepping aside, then pulling the pike, sending the wielder off balance and into the abyss. The prisoner with the short sword doesn't fare much better, as Conan evades his swipe and decapitates him with a single blow.
TAMARA: Tamara sees that the prisoner baskets are suspended by the top half of the metallic cage. She begins scaling the cage, her eyes set upon the imprisoned monks.
CONAN: Three more COMBATANTS step in to replace the fallen duo. Conan readies himself as the first one steps up, only to have the combatant suddenly grabbed by a ENORMOUS TENTACLE, much like the one Conan cut through earlier.
TENTACLED MONSTER: Up from the darkness of the pit comes a gargantuan monster; a gigantic octopus-like behemoth, with multiple tentacles that feed a pulsing black orifice lined with razor sharp teeth. The creature reaches out and grabs another SCREAMING combatants, lowering him to its mouth and devouring him in its gnashing maw. The creature reaches for Conan, who ducks underneath the tentacle, the slices it off. He immediately turns back to check on Tamara -- and he discovers she's not there. He looks up to see Tamara scaling the cage, now nearly fifty feet directly above him.
CONAN (CONT'D): Crom!
AKHUN: The massive warrior spots Tamara getting close to the prisoner baskets and motions to his two Jailers.
AKHUN: Get her!
TAMARA: She's reached the base of the chain supporting one of the baskets when she spots the two Jailers closing in, climbing towards her from either side.
CONAN: Spotting Tamara overhead, Conan tries to keep beneath her, evading the swarming tentacles while balancing on the rickety planks.
TAMARA: She's scaling down the basket supporting chain when the first Jailer reaches out to grab her. She reacts by GASHING his eyes, and as he instinctively grabs them, he FALLS TOWARDS
CONAN: Conan barely dives out of the way as the fallen Jailer SMASHES through the plank he was on, forcing Conan to jump to another. Just then another COMBATANT comes swinging for the Cimmerian, forcing him to defend while still not balanced.
TAMARA: The next Jailer grabs her, pulling her off the cage. He struggles to pull towards a nearby exit hatch when she BITES
CONAN: Conan spots Tamara plunging towards him. In one swift move, he SLASHES his opponent, ducks underneath a writhing tentacle, and reaches out to GRAB TAMARA BY THE ARM AS SHE FALLS. His shoulder nearly pops out, but he manages to hold onto Tamara.
TAMARA: She swings above the chasm, the gnashing teeth of the monster below her. Only a single splintering plank holds her and Conan aloft.
CONAN: With a grunt, he swings Tamara and throws her to safety, at the edge of the pit. But as he gets to his feet, he spots the massive Akhun entering the arena.
AKHUN: The giant warrior grins as he boards the same plank as Conan. He thrusts his thunderous legs down, causing the plank to bend and warp. Conan struggle to balance on the undulating plank, but his training in Cimmeria serves him well. Akhun smiles and step closer, again thrusting down with his legs. Conan's balance is thrown, but there's no other plank close enough for him to jump to.
AKHUN (CONT'D): You'll make a nice meal. Akhun steps down on the plank one last time, but this time Conan uses the momentum to SPRINGBOARD UP INTO AIR. Conan soars into the air, his cat-like reflexes keeping him focused as he lands right before the stunned Akhun. With one great slash of his blade, Conan eviscerates Akhun.
TAMARA: Where is Ilira?
FEMALE MONK: She was taken away by Fariq.
TAMARA: Then I'm too late. One of the stronger looking women, an ELDER MONK, steps forward.
ELDER MONK: No. She was just taken this morning. It's not yet midnight, and Khalar still must bring her to the cave of Acheron. Tamara nods and the women begin to ARM THEMSELVES. Conan shakes his head at the rag-tag group.
CONAN: You're going to fight Khalar's troops? Just you? The Elder Monk grabs and nearby pike and twirls it expertly about her body, clearly well versed in it use.
TAMARA: Cimmerians aren't the only women who know how to fight. And to kill. Tamara looks at the other monks.
TAMARA (CONT'D): Our duty was to keep the queen safe. We failed. But if Khalar brings her to Acheron, it will rise again -- and all our peoples' sacrifice is for nothing.
TAMARA (CONT'D): So if the queen is not free by the stroke of midnight -- she must be already dead. The other monks nod and they start to head off. Tamara is the last to head off, her eyes burning into Conan's.
CONAN: You want my help again.
TAMARA: No. You kept your word, I'll keep mine. I pray you fulfill your debt. Tamara kisses Conan's cheek one last time and heads off.
ELDER MONK: Guard.
TAMARA: Don't kill him. We need to find out which way Ilira was taken. The Elder Monk nods and slips up ahead. We hear a SMASH.
TAMARA: Tell us where the last girl was taken. The Guard just LAUGHS at them through bloody teeth.
TAMARA: Your debt --
CONAN: Will be where your queen is. Tamara smiles. She knows it is a half truth.
TAMARA: Ilira! She raises Ilira's head, only to discover lifeless eyes. Tamara cradles her best friend's face.
TAMARA (CONT'D): She's dead. It's over.
KHALAR SINGH: It's only begun. Because that one was not the heir to Acheron. Khalar smiles down at Tamara.
TAMARA: No. It can't be --
KHALAR SINGH: Secretive, the traitors of Acheron. It wasn't easy, but Fariq finally wrung honesty from the girl. That poor innocent was forced to live a lie, even as the truth was kept from the queen herself.
TAMARA: No! Suddenly, a trap door opens beneath Conan and drops down in the darkness, landing with a heavy THUD.
FARIQ: At last you awaken, Cimmerian. It's been hours you've made me wait for my fun. Conan says nothing, but his eyes scan the room, taking in everything.
FARIQ (CONT'D): You made me lose face in front of my father. That wasn't wise. But what should I expect from a Cimmerian?
CONAN: A swift end! Conan strains at the chain, ripping the skin beneath his shackles -- but a thin wisp of mortar comes loose from the pillar.
FARIQ: Hardly. But that is a difference between you and me. A swift end would be a mercy I do not intend to grant. No, you must suffer for your transgressions.
FARIQ (CONT'D): You must beg for your suffering to end. Just as your people did. He waves the glowing sword tip in front of Conan's face.
CONAN: You lie. I was there. My father never uttered a sound. Fariq LAUGHS, amused.
FARIQ: You were there? What were you doing, warrior? Watching your father die, without saying a sound? Taking your eyes will be justice indeed, coward. Fariq pushes the hot tip of the sword against Conan's skin. Conan's face reddens with pain, but he doesn't utter a sound. But as Conan pulls on his chains -- more mortar falls. As Fariq turns back to place the sword in the forge, Conan notices one of the bricks the chains are fastened to is
CONAN: I saw my father die. Slain by one who can only kill men already on their knees. Fariq turns, his eyes blazing. He glances over at the two GUARDS by the door, who try not to listen.
FARIQ: I've killed many in battle, cur.
CONAN: Really? Then why did your father not let you face me before, when I had sword in hand. He thought you unequal to the task. Fariq responds by pushing the red hot blade against Conan's chest. Conan just YELLS back at him.
CONAN (CONT'D): Coward! Prove your strength! Again, Fariq pushes the hot blade against Conan's skin.
CONAN (CONT'D): Take my eyes, coward -- if you can.
THE FORGE: A vat of molten steel bubbles in a cauldron within the forge. Conan uses tongs to lift the cauldron out.
FARIQ: Conan kicks him onto his back. Fariq's last vision is that of Conan, tipping the cauldron, the hot iron descending toward his eyes. Fariq SCREAMS. Conan reaches down and picks up Fariq's sword. THE SWORD
TAMARA: This is no empire, only a graveyard.
KHALAR SINGH: You see only with your eyes. Khalar nods to his men. Two Guardsmen take their torches and light other torches set in the walls. It sets off a chain reaction. As far as the eye can see torches ignite revealing the true scope of this place. An enormous cave, the walls lined with monumental columns that frame countless bas relief carvings of demonic origin. And at the far of the cave, an ALTAR sits beneath a raised THRONE, surrounded by a SACRIFICIAL POOL. The pool is empty. Khalar turns to his guards.
THE ALTAR: Khalar dismounts at the sacrificial altar, carved of out of purple-shaded rock. Around its edges are deep channels, for the blood of its victims. And on its four corners -- shackles of bone.
KHALAR SINGH: The Acheronians had a wonderful sense of balance, don't you think? For one to ascend to royalty, another must fall. With the flick of a wrist, Khalar cuts Tamara's bonds.
TAMARA: Stop. You don't know what you are about to do.
KHALAR SINGH: But I do. For thirty years I have dreamed of this day. The day our people rise from the ashes. Khalar Singh continues his chant and places the gold crown upon his head. As he does so, the light from the moon reflects off the crown, bathing the sacrificial pool in an unnatural glow. THUMP-THUMP. A deep and foreboding sound echoes throughout the cave, shaking everything like an earthquake. It sounds like the heartbeat of a giant. Khalar next places the iron crown around Tamara's head. She thrashes and struggles but to no avail. Once the crown is around her head -- THUMP-THUMP! The spikes around the iron crown grow shorter AS THE SPIKES DRIVE THEMSELVES INTO HER HEAD. She SCREAMS in agony. Blood drips from beneath the crown, flowing into channels around the edges of the altar.
CONAN: Crom. He reaches the eye of the skull.
REVERSE ANGLE: With the moon over his shoulder, Conan stares down at the unholy sight before him. We pull back revealing Tamara, her blood draining from her body.
KHALAR SINGH: It's good that you pray. Gods will be here soon. Tamara struggles to speak, her body wracked with pain.
TAMARA: He'll--be---here--sooner.
KHALAR SINGH: Who?
KHALAR SINGH: I will say this for you, barbarian. You are hard to kill.
CONAN: Let her go.
KHALAR SINGH: You've faced me before and lost. What do you think has changed now?
CONAN: My purpose. Conan lunges for Khalar, their swords meeting with a flash of sparks. They fight to a brief standstill when ---THUMP,
THE ALTAR: Tamara writhes in pain as the spikes drive deeper into her head. More blood pours forth. The blood in the channels speeds up and finds the channel leading down to the sacrificial pool. Conan makes another movement toward the altar, but Khalar nimbly blocks his path.
KHALAR SINGH: You are strong, Cimmerian, but we both know you are not my equal. Conan takes the burlap sack wrapped at his hip pulls it off.
CONAN: Once you used my father to teach your son a lesson about strength. Now let me teach you. Conan tosses out what is inside. It falls to the ground, rolling to Khalar Singh's feet.
FARIQ'S HEAD: Khalar looks down at the ground -- at the head of his beloved son, his eyes gone, replaced by molten metal. Khalar trembles in shock and rage.
KHALAR SINGH: No. Khalar reaches for the severed head, giving Conan a brief window to rush to Tamara's side. Conan tries to lift her off the altar, but the bone shackles still pin her down.
THE ALTAR: In agony, Tamara pulls one of the spikes out, then another. She pushes with all her might, lifting the crown of iron off her bloodied head -- When the Guardsmen charge her, pin her down, and force the crown back on. THUMP, THUMP! The crown spikes imbed themselves even deeper as Tamara SCREAMS. The blood now fills the channels of the altar. WE FOLLOW the trail of blood, down the side of the altar, in a spiral channel around the leg, and in a wide circle around the altar until reaching the channel's end --
ACHERON: Another two hundred feet deep lies the golden spired city of ancient Acheron. The cave is but a forechamber, the slightest taste of the true glory and horror of Acheron. And as they stare down into the ancient city, the shadows there MOVE. Is it a trick of the light? No. Whatever the dark forms are, they are coming this way, climbing the tallest demonic spires and leaping impossibly far to climb up after Conan and Khalar Singh. Khalar gazes down at the city with wide eyes.
THE ALTAR: Tamara, her body's blood nearly drained, is still shackled to the altar, which now teeters over the edge of chasm, poised to fall into the fiery depths.
TAMARA: Conan!!!
CONAN: On the other side of the abyss, Conan spots her and scales the cave wall, up to a tiered plateau. He moves quickly, trying to get to Tamara.
KHALAR SINGH: Khalar watches, entranced, as the first of the creatures rises out of the pit. They climb the walls like insects, clinging to the walls, their heads swiveling like a praying mantis.
ACHERONIAN WARRIORS: The look like the statues above -- a hybrid -- part human, part demon. Their skin is a perfect black, armor carved of black bone, faces once human but now demonic with blood red eyes and gnashing teeth.
KHALAR SINGH: I am Khalar Singh, King of Acheron. I command you to kneel! And this demonic horde advances right for him, their razor sharp teeth bared. Unsure, Khalar grips his tulwars tight. The demonic creatures draw close, and they -- kneel. They climb out of the abyss and immediately lower their heads before Khalar Singh. Out of the corner of his eye, Khalar spots Conan, drawing near.
ACHERONIAN COMMANDER: First, we feed. Its voice is somewhere between a whisper and a hiss.
KHALAR SINGH: Fine. Take your fill. I will kill him myself.
CONAN: Conan is on an intercept course with Tamara, leaping across chasms from statue to statue. Just below him, the first wave of Acheronian Warriors reach the Khalar's remaining Guardsmen.
KHALAR'S GUARDSMEN: Khalar's Guardsmen, who have been watching the events with mouths agape, realize the danger too late. The horde of Acheronian Warriors leaps on them and a massive battle ensues between the demonic warriors and the soldiers.
CONAN: His climbing is dizzying, reminiscent of his youth scaling the cliffs of Cimmeria.
KHALAR: Intercepts Conan just below the altar, his tulwars at the ready.
CONAN: Your story ends here. The two warriors square off, fighting even as they cling to the statues.
ACHERONIAN WARRIORS: The demon warriors not only slay Khalar's Guardsmen, but rip their still living bodies apart, dousing themselves in the blood of their victims. It is a violent ritual, both Bacchantic and gruesome.
KHALAR: Launches himself at Conan, his tulwars sparking off the stone statuary. Conan leaps to another statue, parrying the blows. Khalar overextends himself, and Conan's sword just barely misses his throat. Khalar pulls back, tries to settle himself. Conan's eyes narrow, he knows what Khalar is doing.
CONAN (CONT'D): Like a woman, Fariq cried and begged me to spare him. Khalar ROARS in rage, launching an all-out offensive. Conan backs up slowly, waiting for his moment. And it comes quickly. Conan ducks below the tulwars and CUTS Khalar across the stomach. Khalar loses his balance and falls, one hand grabbing a protruding statue arm, dangling over the abyss. Conan raises his sword to finish the job.
KHALAR SINGH: They take her to a place you can never follow. Who will you fail, Cimmerian? Your father or your woman? Conan leaps down to the altar. The Acheronian Warriors attack. Standing atop the altar, Conan cuts down all comers, cutting his way through the enemy, working his way to Tamara.
CONAN: Tamara!! They leap on Conan, impossibly fast. They stab him. They cut him. But he does not stop. Even wounded, he throws them into the abyss. And he reaches Tamara, just before the Commander drags her below. He grabs her arm. The Commander grabs her other arm, baring his shark-like teeth. BLAM! Conan punches him in the mouth with his free hand and the Commander falls into the abyss. The bloody Conan pulls Tamara up into his arms. Only for Tamara to scream.
TAMARA: Conan! Conan spins just in time as Khalar strikes. Khalar's tulwar narrowly misses, and Conan counters. His father's sword runs Khalar Singh through. Khalar's body falls into the abyss. But the Acheronian Warriors surround them. Thousands climb out of the abyss, teeth bared, closing in on the wounded Conan. Tamara, badly weakened herself, grabs Conan.
TAMARA (CONT'D): Conan, you know what you must do. Kill me.
CONAN: No.
TAMARA: It is the only way to end this. My death gives others life.
CONAN: I cannot.
TAMARA: You must. Your parents both understood that purpose. Now it is yours. Live, Conan. A tear falls from Tamara's face. The demonic warriors prepare to strike. Conan drives his sword into Tamara's heart. The crown spikes retract and it falls from her head, tumbling into the abyss. BOOM! A seismic explosion shakes everything, an unearthly GUST OF WIND pulling the Acheronian Warriors back down into the abyss.
ACHERONIAN CAVE: The cave begins to fall, massive sections of the roof dropping in to decimate the pyramid and the city below.
ALTAR: Conan pulls Tamara's body away, even as the world descends into dust and debris.
