THE COOLER: Written by Frank Hannah & Wayne Kramer
STYGIAN DARKNESS: The suggestion of traveling through space. Suddenly a star sparkles to life in the distance. Gives rise to another. and another. until we're looking at a whole galaxy of stars. No, not stars. LIGHTS. NEON LIGHTS. A throbbing skyline of neon. LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. As seen from a descending aerial shot. We PLUNGE down into her shimmering embrace. DISSOLVING
CREDITS SEQUENCE: TRACKING through the casino floor; highlighting SLOT MACHINE PAY-OFFS and pockets of rowdy players winning at BLACKJACK, CRAPS and ROULETTE. It's just one of those nights. The tables are on fire. A FLOOR MANAGER nods as a hefty bet is paid out to a shooter at a craps table: He checks out his watch, anxious for the arrival of.
DEALER: At the next table, ANOTHER DEALER pulls a six card 21. Off the players' stunned reactions. No way! One of the players instinctively glances behind him. but the figure has moved on. The dealer stifles a grin, her eyes following the figure as he heads toward. A HOT CRAPS TABLE. The CROWD APPLAUDS as the shooter lands a hard eight. The dice are fished back to the player. He shakes them up with double ought bravado. We RACK from his hand LARGE in the f.g. to our murky figure passing in the background. The player throws. ( we keep tracking with the figure ) as the stickman calls it: SEVEN OUT! to a thundering chorus of disappointment. Our figure passes by in the foreground, while in the background, we see a growing line of shame at one of the ATM
BERNIE: Forget it.
NATALIE: ( sotto ) ( to Doris ) Dewars and a Diet Coke. Please.
BERNIE: Hi, Natalie.
NATALIE: Hi. Uh.
BERNIE: Yeah, Bernie. Hey, you seen Shelly around? He promised to position me at the tables tonight. I've been on skid row all You didn't settle me from last night.
NATALIE: Yeah, Bernie. Hey, you seen Shelly around? He promised to position me at the tables tonight. I've been on skid row all You didn't settle me from last night.
DORIS: ( chilly ) You didn't settle me from last night.
NATALIE: No? You sure? Fuck. And I was way under. It's been, like, an A.A. convention the whole week. I'll make up for it tonight. Promise.
BERNIE: If I see Shelly, I'll let him know. That you're looking for him.
NATALIE: She takes off.
DORIS: Bitch. That's the third time this Let me get you that cream.
BERNIE: ( staring after Natalie ) Nah, it's okay.
DORIS: Don't get sweet on that, Bernie. Not unless you're looking to get short-
FLOORMAN: Hey, Bernie, Shelly needs you on Uh. Let's do the Chivas Regal. Have that. Natalie bring it over. The one working nickel slots next to the Paradise. I spoke to Shelly earlier, he wants her at the tables.
BERNIE: ( nods ) Uh. Let's do the Chivas Regal. Have that. Natalie bring it over. The one working nickel slots next to the Paradise. I spoke to Shelly earlier, he wants her at the tables.
NATALIE: This is you, right?
BERNIE: ( takes it from her ) Joe said I should stick around. You say something to Shelly?
NATALIE: Joe said I should stick around. You say something to Shelly?
NATALIE: Wow. That was fast. Hey, thanks.
BERNIE: Don't mention it. I'll make you a fortune on five and nine. C'mon forty-five-sixty-three
BULLDOG: I'll make you a fortune on five and nine. C'mon forty-five-sixty-three
BERNIE: Hey, buddy, is this your drink?
BULLDOG: Back off, pal. I'm on a roll here.
STICKMAN: Seven out!
BULLDOG: Thank you for those bets, folks.
STICKMAN: Thank you for those bets, folks.
BERNIE: ( to himself ) Yeah, yeah, I'm comin'.
SHELLY: Nicky, how the hell are you? I didn't know you were coming in.
NICKY: ( shakes his head ) Whassimater? You think I don't wash up after goin' to the John? Forget about it.
SHELLY: ( uncomfortably ) You shoulda called ahead. I woulda sent a car.
NICKY: Ehh. We thought we'd surprise you.
SHELLY: Well, anytime, Nicky. Anytime.
NICKY: Shelly, I want you to meet one of our smartest VPs, Larry Sokolov. And his numbers guy, Marty Goldfarb.
LARRY: How do you do, Shelly?
SHELLY: What can I get you boys to drink?
SHELLY: So. what brings you to town, Nicky?
NICKY: Look, Shelly, this is your joint, you run it the way you see fit. But we got a smart kid here and he's got some good ideas on how to revitalize the Shangri-la.
SHELLY: Revitalize? What are you talking about? We did thirty-five million last year.
LARRY: First off, Shelly, I want you to know, I have nothing but respect for you. You've done a fantastic job with the Shangri-la for the last sixteen years. No one would dispute Yeah, no one doubts that, Shelly.
NICKY: Yeah, no one doubts that, Shelly.
LARRY: But, the business has changed out here. You just have to take a look at the Strip to see what I'm talking You mean, that amusement park mook fest out there? You know what that is? That's a fucking violation of something that used to be beautiful. That used to have class. Like a gorgeous high priced hooker with an exclusive clientele. And then that Steve Wynn cocksucker knocks her up and puts her in a family way.
SHELLY: You mean, that amusement park mook fest out there? You know what that is? That's a fucking violation of something that used to be beautiful. That used to have class. Like a gorgeous high priced hooker with an exclusive clientele. And then that Steve Wynn cocksucker knocks her up and puts her in a family way.
SHELLY: Now she's nothing but a cheap, fat whore hiding behind too much makeup. I look at her and see all those ugly stretch marks and I want to cry. 'Cause I remember her as she was.
LARRY: Yes, well. there's no denying the bottom line. Those eyesores are raking it in. And we can't compete against What? You think I'm trying to compete with that? You think this joint's about bringing in the stroller crowd? Fresh off some fucking E-ticket ride, looking to break the house on red and black. Fremont's never been about that bullshit. This is where old time and real money comes to play.
SHELLY: What? You think I'm trying to compete with that? You think this joint's about bringing in the stroller crowd? Fresh off some fucking E-ticket ride, looking to break the house on red and black. Fremont's never been about that bullshit. This is where old time and real money comes to play.
LARRY: The numbers, they don't back you up, Shelly. Nostalgia's grand. We all love nostalgia but it belongs in a museum. I think it's time to decide whether you're running a museum or a Hey, forget about it. We'll talk later. Over dinner.
NICKY: Hey, forget about it. We'll talk later. Over dinner.
MARTY: ( rubs his hands together ) So, how's the action?
SHELLY: Bernie. Mr. Cool. Got a moment?
BERNIE: I was just heading over to
SHELLY: It can wait.
SHELLY: How's the knee?
SHELLY: I was speaking to this orthopedic surgeon over at Vegas Memorial. He tells me they can replace a man's entire kneecap with titanium. It's the kinda thing that costs a shitload, but since the man's into us for five hundred large, I'm sure we could
BERNIE: ( stealing glances at Natalie ) I told you, I'm not gonna be around after Sunday.
SHELLY: ( sighs ) Where you gonna go, Bernie? Where the fuck are you gonna go that's better'n here? I got you covered in this town. People, they know you work for me, that's currency in your pocket. That's fuckin' respect when you walk the floor. Where you gonna get that anyplace else?
BERNIE: ( sighs ) Seven days, Shelly. Seven days and I'm out from under.
SHELLY: That's right. I like to know who's shopping it in my neighborhood. You wanna keep working the Shangri-la, you come see me tomorrow morning in my office. We'll go over the rules together. And before you come, you bring me a clean bill of health. OK?
SHELLY: All right, get outta here.
SHELLY: You want that, Bernie? She's yours. Anytime. I'll keep a tab running for What's a matter? Not your type?
BERNIE: Things are getting hot on fourteen. I gotta go.
NATALIE: Seven and Seven?
PINKERTON: Thanks, dollface.
NATALIE: Oh shit. Sorry. I'm such a klutz.
BERNIE: It's all right. Happens.
NATALIE: Sorry, this guy. fuckin' hands, you know.
BERNIE: S'okay. You might want to stick
STICKMAN: Excuse me, Mr. Pinkerton. You have no hard eight.
PINKERTON: ( throwing in a chip ) Gimmie a hundred dollar hard eight.
STICKMAN: Eight the hard way!
STICKMAN: Nine hundred dollars to Mr. Pinkerton.
PINKERTON: Parlay! Parlay!
PINKERTON: C'mon. You can take that action.
PINKERTON: That's what I'm talking about. None of this low limit bullshit.
BERNIE: Dollar hard eight.
STICKMAN: Eight easy! Easy eight! Hard eight comes down.
PINKERTON: Five hundred dollar hard eight. And press my nine up two units.
STICKMAN: Easy way eight! Eight easy!
PINKERTON: Hard eight.
STICKMAN: Seven out!
PINKERTON: What the fuck you smiling at, bitch?
BUDDY: Shelly. I was a goddamn embarrassment tonight. I shouldn'a let you talk me into going on. It's definitely strep.
SHELLY: You were velvet out there, pops.
SHELLY: They were hanging on the door outside. Forget your tonsils. When the muff confetti stops coming, that's when you got yourself a problem.
BUDDY: ( dangling the panties on his finger ) You get a receipt?
SHELLY: Excuse me?
BUDDY: Charmayne's in the lobby. They got these on sale in the window. Victoria Secret's Valentine's Collection. And the broad waiting in the room, what she set you back? Always Grade-A for Ol' Buddy.
SHELLY: Are you kidding me? Gimme that. You don't fucking deserve this. All those ladies going home with a sweet breeze between their legs because you still do it for them and you're fingering me for some kinda Buddy Stafford ego pimp. Hey, fuck you, old man.
BUDDY: ( affectionately ) Get back here, you prick. Hand it
BUDDY: Whassimatter, kid? You got that Nostradamus look.
BUDDY: You ever watch those nature shows on
TV?: Shelly shakes his head.
BUDDY: I've seen this one a dozen times. It's about lions. Cycle of life thing. The leader of the pack.
SHELLY: Pride. It's called a pride.
BUDDY: Yeah, pride. The leader of the pride. when he gets on in years. It's just a matter of time before some young male arrives on the scene to challenge him. They go at it and the old cat gets the crap beaten outta him. It's humiliating. In front of all the females, this goes down. And after he's defeated, he's cast out of the pride, to scavenge and die alone in the bush.
SHELLY: Yeah, nature's got a real sick sense of humor.
BUDDY: No shit. It's fucking tragic because the old lion can't figure it out on his own. That he's past it. It'd be so much easier for him to just walk away and save himself all that pain and humiliation.
SHELLY: That's like admitting to yourself that you're already dead. I prefer nature's way.
BUDDY: ( a beat ) Yeah. Me, too.
LARRY: Shelly, got a minute.
LARRY: Shelly, this is Johnny Capella.
JOHNNY: How ya doin', Shelly?
SHELLY: I know you from somewhere, right?
LARRY: Johnny's been opening for Danny Ganz at the Mirage. Sony's talking about signing him to a three album deal. They're positioning him as the new Ricki Martin.
SHELLY: And I should be interested in this, Johnny's looking to headline. I told him we might be interested.
LARRY: Johnny's looking to headline. I told him we might be interested.
SHELLY: ( icy ) Hey, if this is a bad time.
JOHNNY: Hey, if this is a bad time.
SHELLY: Even if I were interested, Buddy's got ink with us through 2003. I just renegotiated his contract last year.
JOHNNY: Sounds like the two of you need to get on the same page. If I don't hear from you by Thursday, I'm taking the Stardust's offer.
NICKY: Where's Buddy? I wanna buy the old fart a drink.
SHELLY: Buddy asked me to send you his regards, Nicky. He's not feeling so great. I think he's got that stomach flu that's going around.
NICKY: Oh yeah? That's too bad. Well, another time then.
MARTY: Hey, Shelly, Nicky says you might be able to hook us up with some showgirls. Something with class.
SHELLY: Sure, no problem. You got any Yeah. Something with big headlights, nice rims and low mileage.
NICKY: ( jumps in ) Yeah. Something with big headlights, nice rims and low mileage.
MARTY: You got any Asian babes?
LARRY: I think I'll just stick with the
NATALIE: Buy you a drink?
NATALIE: ( almost to herself ) Your Progressed Venus is Gemini, 12.5 Degrees, and is in Direct motion. Which tells me that you're a slow starter when it comes to romance. ( off Bernie's taken aback expression ) You know what? This is real unprofessional of me. I shouldn't discuss your chart with you until I'm all done. I can tell by that look, you think this is all a lot of
BERNIE: No. I just know what the outcome's going to be.
NATALIE: The outcome? There's not, like, one particular outcome. A lot of things enter into it. The planets, moon The outcome won't change with me. It'll be all bad.
BERNIE: The outcome won't change with me. It'll be all bad.
NATALIE: God, I have never met anyone who was so down on themselves. I used to be down on myself, OK? I don't go there anymore. I've got just three more correspondence classes with this stuff, then I'll have my certificate and everything. And you know how I got OK?
BERNIE: ( deadpan ) You had your chart done.
NATALIE: Yes, as a matter of fact that is perfectly correct.
BERNIE: Do you know what I do at the Shangri- I asked around. You're a "cooler." You turn winners into losers.
NATALIE: I asked around. You're a "cooler." You turn winners into losers.
BERNIE: And do you know how I do that?
NATALIE: I know there's stuff that goes on in casinos all the time
BERNIE: I do it by being myself. People get next to me and their luck turns. It's always been that way.
NATALIE: That sounds to me like a self fulfilling prophecy. There's a whole chapter on that in my course. Anyways, I can see a big factor in your life is that you're lacking companionship. There's nobody to deflect off. If you've got, as you put it, bad karma, then you need someone with good karma to neutralize it. Well, that's my take on it anyway.
BERNIE: I don't know about you, but I'm real
NATALIE: I have this recurring dream where I'm on some beautiful island in the Bahamas. I'm sitting on the beach, taking in this amazing sunset with one of these in my hand .and then it starts to rain. And I wake up and it's my roof leaking on me. Yeah, I'm also real tired, Bernie.
BERNIE: ( not even sure why he's telling her this ) I only got six more days. Well, almost five really. Then I'll be leaving Only five more days? ( a beat ) Then we shouldn't waste any more
NATALIE: Only five more days? Then we shouldn't waste any more
NATALIE: Why don't we go back to your place?
BERNIE: ( completely caught off-guard ) I, uh. If this is. I don't know. I don't know if I can afford.
BERNIE: Oh god. I'm so sorry. I didn't mean. You see that's exactly what I'm talking about. I've gone and "cooled" the damn table.
NATALIE: Ah, just shut up, Bernie. You haven't gone and cooled anything. Not by a long shot.
NATALIE: You should complain about this.
BERNIE: I'm not here that much. Drink? Sorry, all I got's gin.
NATALIE: Nah. I've had my fill. Go ahead.
NATALIE: You know, once they're dead, they don't really grow back. In case, that's what you're waiting for.
NATALIE: So. got any music?
NATALIE: Sit. Relax. I promise you, at least one of us has done this before.
BERNIE: This is not my first
NATALIE: Sssh. Surprise me.
NATALIE: You're doing real good.
BERNIE: Natalie wraps her arms around him.
NATALIE: Don't worry, Bernie. I've had worse. We'll try again later.
NATALIE: Hey, so, you wanna get some breakfast? running numbers. It was Shelly's thing, but I took the rap for it.
BERNIE: After I get out, I call up Shelly and he tells me to come out here. I figure he's going to set me up good at the Shangri-la. But he tells me they got all these rules about casinos employing felons. So he gets me this gig doing telemarketing for one of their fronts trying to scam pensioners out of their retirement money. I lasted two weeks.
BERNIE: Already, I was getting in deep. Finally it got so bad, I had to beg Shelly to take on my markers around town. That just bought me more time to keep losing. I put Shelly in an awkward position. I understand why he did what he did.
NATALIE: He did that to you? What, he shot Baseball bat. I got off easy.
BERNIE: Baseball bat. I got off easy.
NATALIE: That's getting off easy?
BERNIE: I was out of control.
NATALIE: But he maimed you.
BERNIE: Let me tell you something. I'm grateful for what he did. No kidding. Every time I get an urge to play off the clock to so much as drop a quarter in a slot I reach down and squeeze what's left of my cartilage. It's one helluva Jesus. I thought stuff like that didn't happen no more. Like that was just in the movies or something.
NATALIE: Jesus. I thought stuff like that didn't happen no more. Like that was just in the movies or something.
BERNIE: Anyway, Shelly and I worked out a payment plan. Two years off the books at the Shangri-la, cooling tables. Five more days and I walk.
PREGNANT GIRL: ( clutching her belly ) Oh shit, I think I'm going into labor!
BERNIE: ( shocked )
MIKEY: There's a quick moment of confusion. Bernie feels a bit thrown by it all.
PREGNANT GIRL: I'm OK now. False alarm. Thanks.
BERNIE: Mikey? Is that.? You're not the.
MIKEY: ( nods ) Bull's eye. One time. Obviously runs in the family. I guess you're gonna be a grandfather, Bernie.
BERNIE: This you?
MIKEY: Hey, what the fuck, it runs. Anyways, we gotta be somewhere.
BERNIE: How's your mom doing?
MIKEY: I'm gonna pretend like you give a shit and tell you, she's getting by. As long as she's wasted.
MIKEY: Name's Charlene, in case you were wondering. Looks like she's carrying a whole litter in there, don't it?
NATALIE: When was the last time you saw a
CHARLENE: This clinic in Jersey. Maybe six months ago. I wasn't about to go back after they treated me like cattle. Just because I didn't have no insurance. And those places, they're crawling with T.B. from all 'em spies.
BERNIE: So, you're in town.?
MIKEY: Maybe a week or so. Got some business to take care of.
BERNIE: If you want, stop by the Lucky Star Motel. Give us a chance to catch up. I'm on three to eleven shift at the Shangri-la. I work the floor.
MIKEY: No shit. Well, how 'bout that? Yeah, maybe I'll do that. We can play catch up. For the kid's sake. Gotta split.
NATALIE: ( to Charlene ) Take care.
PLAYER: Don't mention it.
BERNIE: Don't mention it.
DEALER: ( he knows the routine ) Hundred dollar minimum here, sir. Money plays one hundred.
DEALER: Money plays one hundred.
PLAYER: ( to Bernie ) No offense, pal, but there's twenty other tables. What do you wanna come sit on my head for?
BERNIE: Just wanna play one hand. Feeling lucky tonight. I got this voice in my head, says this is the table.
PLAYER: I know this is the table. I'm already doing good here. It's my fucking Hey, heard the one about the fella walks into a bar and says, "Hey, who owns that big great dane outside?" A man at the end of the bar raises his hand. "I do." The fella says, "Yeah? Well, my dog just killed it."
BERNIE: ( touching him ) Hey, heard the one about the fella walks into a bar and says, "Hey, who owns that big great dane outside?" A man at the end of the bar raises his hand. "I do." The fella says, "Yeah? Well, my dog just killed it."
BERNIE: "Whaddya mean your dog just killed my great dane? What kinda dog you have?" The fella just shrugs and says, "A chihuahua." "You tellin' me your chihuahua just killed my great dane? How?" "I dunno," the fella says, "I think he got stuck in his throat."
DEALER: We see the dealer's got an ace showing.
PLAYER: God damnit!
PLAYER: You said, one hand.
BERNIE: ( agitated; to dealer ) Keep going.
PLAYER: Hey, stick around, pal. You and me, we make a great team.
SHELLY: What was that?
SHELLY: Well, what fucking gives? Is it McGann? He's been with us twelve years. The man's as standup as my Maybe he's got money problems. I'm gonna pull him. He wasn't counting 'em, was he? The mook with the streak?
LARRY: Is there a problem?
SHELLY: ( zero tolerance ) No, there's no problem. Fella's on a streak, is all.
LARRY: ( re: Bernie ) Let me guess? This is one of your Why don't you announce it to the whole fucking joint?
SHELLY: Why don't you announce it to the whole fucking joint?
LARRY: ( lowers his voice ) Man, they told me you were a stickler for the old ways. But coolers? What is this guy, some kind of degenerate gambler? Reformed card shark? He doesn't look too effective to me.
SHELLY: He's the best. Take it from me.
LARRY: Sure. Whatever. But there ways subtle ways to keep things in our favor. I'm talking more forward thinking methods.
SHELLY: That right? I suppose you got a whole fucking prospectus on the subject.
LARRY: As a matter of fact I do. Like, right off the bat, I can tell you this wallpaper isn't going to cut it. It's too uplifting. I would go with more muted tones.
SHELLY: Yeah? Wallpaper?
LARRY: And personally, I think the waitresses can all pop another button or two. Myself, I wouldn't hire anything less than a C cup.
LARRY: Know what this is? Music to be sure. Pleasant, non-intrusive. But blended in at a subsonic level is a mantra. "Lose. lose. lose." And that's just skimming the surface. We really need to talk, Shelly.
MORRIE: Shelly, you better come quick.
SHELLY: ( to Morrie ) Get a hold of his daughter. Assist her with the arrangements. The Shangri- la will take care of everything.
MORRIE: What about the Paradise?
SHELLY: She goes dark tonight.
LARRY: That won't be necessary.
NATALIE: Nothing. You're just an easy mark, is all.
BERNIE: Nothing. You're just an easy mark, is all.
NATALIE: Nothing. You're just an easy mark, is all.
BERNIE: Nothing. You're just an easy mark, is all.
NATALIE: An easy mark?
BERNIE: Yeah. Easy mark. You never heard that term?
BERNIE: When we were kids, Shelly and me, we used to work Coney Island during the summer. When a guy would walk up and seemed eager to open his wallet, we would always mark him with chalk. We'd pat him on the back or arm with the chalk. Like, 'Hey buddy, good Meanwhile, he had no clue the other guys saw him coming a mile away. Easy mark.
BERNIE: You OK?
NATALIE: You notice last night, that tattoo on my butt?
BERNIE: ( are you kidding?! ) Little Joe.
NATALIE: Yeah, two twos. Little Joe. I had a son. His name was Joe. I was his mother for a year.
NATALIE: I had a son. His name was Joe. I was his mother for a year.
BERNIE: You know, you don't have to tell me I want to, Bernie. Better you know the worst of me up front. Later, when I'm already invested in you, it'll be too hard to come clean. After I tell you this, you'll probably. I mean, I'll understand.
NATALIE: I want to, Bernie. Better you know the worst of me up front. Later, when I'm already invested in you, it'll be too hard to come clean. After I tell you this, you'll probably. I mean, I'll understand.
NATALIE: I gave my son up for adoption. I just wanted my life back. I was seventeen going on eighteen and I was selfish. My family, they didn't want to have nothing to do with me after that. So I hitched a ride out here. Figured I could make it as a showgirl. Ten years later. I like to think that if it happened when I was older with some guy I cared about maybe things would have been different. I think about my Little Joe. And, I do know he's better off. I'm convinced of that.
BERNIE: So, you wanna go try your hand at the dime pitch? It's early still.
CHARLENE: I gotta go pee. I'm always peeing.
NATALIE: ( to Mikey ) How did you get in here?
MIKEY: I told the desk clerk Bernie was my old man. He let us wait inside. That a problem?
NATALIE: Bernie's looking for a parking space.
MIKEY: ( chuckles ) Shit. I musta taken the last one.
MIKEY: Tell me something, Natalie? Is he paying you?
NATALIE: Excuse me?
MIKEY: My old man, is he renting your ass? 'Cause otherwise I just don't get it. A loser like my pops in the company of some primo T & A. It don't
MIKEY: This enough to get me a taste? Family
BERNIE: Hey, Bernie. I told you I was gonna stop by.
MIKEY: Hey, Bernie. I told you I was gonna stop by.
BERNIE: Yeah. I figured you'd call ahead. We were out at breakfast.
NATALIE: You missed some.
MIKEY: You see, the thing is, Bernie, we're kinda strapped. I mean, Charly here's expecting like yesterday, and we don't have the dough to make with the right nutrition for her an' all. So, I was wondering if you would care to invest a little in your grandchild's future. his well being.
BERNIE: There's about three grand there. That's all I got.
CHARLENE: Bless you, Bernie. You know, Michael, I think we should name her Bernadette. After your father.
MIKEY: You mean, Bernie. Trust me, it's a
CHARLENE: ( to Bernie ) Wanna feel her?
BERNIE: I don't think. I don't want anything to hap.
CHARLENE: Ooh, I just felt her kick. C'mon, Bernie, gimme your hand.
CHARLENE: Feel that?
BERNIE: ( not sure ) I don't know. I think so.
MIKEY: We'll catch you later, Bernie. I think I'm gonna take Charly over to the hospital right now. Get her checked up real good.
CHARLENE: Take care, Pop.
BERNIE: Mikey turns in the doorway, eyebrows raised. Yeah?
BERNIE: You're not going to try anything stupid while you're in town?
BERNIE: You mess up and they'll cut you no slack. That's all I'm saying. You got a kid to think about.
NICKY: Shelly, I hope you don't mind.
SHELLY: What's going on, Nicky?
NICKY: I'm sorry we didn't say nothing about this earlier. but the deal wasn't closed yet.
MARTY: Don't worry, Shelly, you're gonna love it.
NICKY: The new Shangri-la Hotel and Casino. We break ground on her in six months.
NICKY: I know what you're thinking? Where's she gonna go? You need space to expand, right? Well, that's been taken care of. We're now the proud owners of The Golden Frontier next She's perfect. Three floors of gaming, IMAX theater, entertainment center, boutiques, restaurants, rollercoaster, you name it. She'll pay for herself in three years, and then it's easy Isn't she great, Shell? In "Lost Horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the Himalayas and they get rescued and taken to this Utopia in the mountains. Shangri- la. It's beautiful. The place is completely isolated. Untouched by the outside world. There's no war, no greed, no bullshit. Time is slowed down. People, they don't age. It's. paradise. That's what Shangri- la is. Paradise.
LARRY: ( gesturing to the model ) She's perfect. Three floors of gaming, IMAX theater, entertainment center, boutiques, restaurants, rollercoaster, you name it. She'll pay for herself in three years, and then it's easy Isn't she great, Shell? In "Lost Horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the Himalayas and they get rescued and taken to this Utopia in the mountains. Shangri- la. It's beautiful. The place is completely isolated. Untouched by the outside world. There's no war, no greed, no bullshit. Time is slowed down. People, they don't age. It's. paradise. That's what Shangri- la is. Paradise.
NICKY: Isn't she great, Shell? In "Lost Horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the Himalayas and they get rescued and taken to this Utopia in the mountains. Shangri- la. It's beautiful. The place is completely isolated. Untouched by the outside world. There's no war, no greed, no bullshit. Time is slowed down. People, they don't age. It's. paradise. That's what Shangri- la is. Paradise.
SHELLY: In "Lost Horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the Himalayas and they get rescued and taken to this Utopia in the mountains. Shangri- la. It's beautiful. The place is completely isolated. Untouched by the outside world. There's no war, no greed, no bullshit. Time is slowed down. People, they don't age. It's. paradise. That's what Shangri- la is. Paradise.
LARRY: Yeah, we've all seen the movie. And your point is?
SHELLY: You don't fuck with paradise! All'a Hey, Jesus, c'mon, Shelly. We're not trying to fuck with it. We're trying to make it better.
NICKY: Hey, Jesus, c'mon, Shelly. We're not trying to fuck with it. We're trying to make it better.
SHELLY: How. how, Nicky, could it be any better? Right now it's perfect. It's the last of its kind. It's pure. and this. .this is just. it's a mockery. An insult. Trying to make something of it that it isn't.
LARRY: What are you talking about? It's right outta the movie?
SHELLY: Whose talking about a fuckin' movie? This ain't a fuckin' movie. This is my life. This is my house of worship. You people are shittin' on all that's sacred to me.
SHELLY: ( tired laugh ) I got just one question? Where you gonna be when they decide to change it back? When the people, they come looking for the real Vegas, from before all this Epcott Center bullshit. Who's gonna it give it to them? You guys? I don't think so. You know who? The same fucks who started this shit in the first place. It's all gonna come full circle and bite you in the ass. Mark my words.
NICKY: You make some good points, Shelly. Maybe it'll swing back the other way, who knows? But the smart money suggests we roll the dice. I'm not gonna bullshit you; naturally there's gonna be a lot of restructuring in the months to come, but I want you to know, you'll always have a place with us.
SHELLY: Where's that? Behind the bar?
MARTY: ( laughs ) Behind the bar, that's a good one.
NICKY: I think you should take some time and think things through. All this, it's a lot to digest, y'know.
MARTY: Speaking of things to digest, I'm starving. How's that buffet they got in the Valley of the Blue Moon? You recommend their prime rib, Shell? It's food.
SHELLY: It's food.
NICKY: Hey, my arteries can use a workout. Lead us to the trough, Shell.
NICKY: Wait up a second.
MARTY: I thought we were gonna eat?
SHELLY: Maybe we wanna play over there. Less Nah, let's play here. This is my lucky table. I always play here. Go on ahead. I know where to find you guys.
NICKY: Nah, let's play here. This is my lucky table. I always play here. Go on ahead. I know where to find you guys.
STICKMAN: Out! Seven, line away seven. C"mon, pops! What the hell? I coulda paid my mortgage with the money I just lost.
SUBURBANITE: C"mon, pops! What the hell? I coulda paid my mortgage with the money I just lost.
SHOOTER: Hey? I'm supposed to be next.
NICKY: File a grievance, shithead.
STICKMAN: We're coming out. Crap Eleven, any
NICKY: Hundred dollar big red.
SUBURBANITE: Hurry it up, gramps. Your soup's getting cold.
STICKMAN: Crap, Ace Deuce. Line down.
SUBURBANITE: Hey, Busketti, maybe you should try
SUBURBANITE: Uncle Palsy? Shake'em this direction.
STICKMAN: Four, hard four. The point is four.
SUBURBANITE: Good now throw it before you fucking keel over and die, old man.
SUBURBANITE: Happy birthday to me. Happy Birthday to me. Jesus, fuck, I'm another year older already.
STICKMAN: OUT! Seven! Line away.
SUBURBANITE: Don't take it so hard, pops. Everybody craps out.
SUBURBANITE: Now go change your fucking Depends.
NICKY: Who's laughing now, huh? ya fuckin! prick! C'mon, crack wise again. Ya fuckin' smooth as a Ken doll, no- dick, suburbanite scum. How's that for a game?!
NICKY: That ain't right, Shelly! Guy fucks up my game like that. Who the fuck does he think he is?
SHELLY: You're right. He's just a piece of shit. Forget about him.
NICKY: I thought this joint had more class. Used to be, we wouldn't even let bums like that in.
BERNIE: This town. You know, Natalie, all I want to do is go some place where I can tell day from night. Where they got clocks on the wall. I can't breathe around here no more. Four days and I'm gone. I'm not even sure I can hold out that long.
NATALIE: ( a beat ) So where does that leave us?
BERNIE: A week ago, I didn't remember what it was like to have a woman's hands on me. I'm still pinching myself, expecting to wake-up from. Come with me, Natalie. I want you to come with me.
NATALIE: God, Bernie, that's.
BERNIE: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to spring that on you.
NATALIE: Bernie. I want to be with you. I do. But I don't know if I can leave with you.
NATALIE: I was working on a compatibility chart for the two of us. And it looks good, really, it does.
BERNIE: So, what's the problem?
NATALIE: That's with us here. In Vegas.
NATALIE: Maybe I was being presumptuous, 'cause I knew you were leaving. and I tried working it in different ways. It wasn't good, Bernie. I got scared. But that's just for now, for the immediate future. Once the planets realign, maybe a year from now.
BERNIE: Natalie. I can't. Not another year. Not another week.
BERNIE: I think. we probably shouldn't see each other anymore.
NATALIE: Why, Bernie? We only got a couple days left together. Why not make the most of them?
BERNIE: ( a long beat ) Because if I spend one more night in your arms, I'm not going anywhere.
NATALIE: And that's so bad?
NATALIE: Take care, Bernie.
BERNIE: Natalie, don't.
BERNIE: ( nods ) I think you better bring me the bottle. Please.
CHARLENE: ( clutching her tummy ) Come on, Mikey. This is our future. Don't blow it.
MIKEY: Put this on the line for the boys.
MIKEY: With shoes!
STICKMAN: Dealer's got shoes. Hands high, the dice are out! The point is nine.
CHARLENE: Come on all you's. Put a good thought in for our baby!
STICKMAN: Six the hard way!
CHARLENE: Oh my god, I just felt him kick! He knows. He knows you're all pulling for him. God bless you all.
STICKMAN: Six the hard way! Look out, we got a
SHELLY: How much?
BERNIE: Eighteen thousand since I stepped up. I'm sorry, Shelly, I guess I've been hit and miss lately.
SHELLY: ( sotto ) Fucking amateurs.
STICKMAN: Seven out! Line away. I thank you. My wife thanks you. My unborn child thanks you.
MIKEY: ( bowing ) I thank you. My wife thanks you. My unborn child thanks you.
MIKEY: Color me up will ya?
LARRY: You've gotta be kidding me. That's not how I propose we handle it. We'll turn the matter over to the authorities. They'll be blacklisted, their credit ruined.
SHELLY: ( gets in Larry's face ) And then we'll give 'em both a lollipop for the ride home. Come watch and learn, Harvard. A little lesson on how to protect your investment the old school way.
SHELLY: Hey, that was some run you had back Uh, thanks. Just lucky I guess. Why don't we go do this in my office? I don't like to hand out all this amount of cash on the floor.
MIKEY: Uh, thanks. Just lucky I guess. Why don't we go do this in my office? I don't like to hand out all this amount of cash on the floor.
SHELLY: Why don't we go do this in my office? I don't like to hand out all this amount of cash on the floor.
CHARLENE: Oh my God. I can feel the contractions coming on.
BERNIE: Shelly, stop them! Don't do this!
SHELLY: Get lost, Bernie, this got nothing to do with you.
BERNIE: It's got everything to do with me. He's my son.
SHELLY: What did you say?
BERNIE: I said, he's my
SHELLY: Who? This little prick?
MIKEY: Pop, help me.
BERNIE: Shelly, don't you fucking do it!
SHELLY: Were you in on this? Jesus, you better come clean with me.
BERNIE: NO! God, no! I didn't know nothing about it.
SHELLY: How much you think their lives are worth, Bernie? Myself, I don't think they're worth piss. But, hey, it ain't my kid.
SHELLY: Let me see: they were up almost a hundred and fifty grand. That's 150 G's someone's gonna have to account for. What do you say, Bernie, seventy- five grand a piece?
SHELLY: Hey, I know you don't have that kind of cash. But, since you're a friend of the house, I'm willing to front Shelly, they didn't get away with the money. You didn't lose
BERNIE: Shelly, they didn't get away with the money. You didn't lose
BERNIE: Oh Jesus. Yes! All right. It's on me. 150 G's.
CHARLENE: Oh god, oh god. you gotta get me to the hospital. contractions.
BERNIE: Shelly, please help her. That's my Hey, why don't we all break out the champagne? Lootz is about to become a granddaddy. How you doin' there, sweetheart? Must hurt like crap, huh?
SHELLY: Hey, why don't we all break out the champagne? Lootz is about to become a granddaddy. How you doin' there, sweetheart? Must hurt like crap, huh?
CHARLENE: ( nods ) Hurts so bad.
SHELLY: Suddenly Shelly kicks Charlene in the belly! WHAM! She screeches out.
NATALIE: Oh God.
BERNIE: Jesus NOOOOO!!!
SHELLY: Here! It's a fuckin' boy. Anyone got a cigar?
SHELLY: ( to Bernie ) You sure you still want to be good for it? Because if you want to change your mind, I don't blame you. I'll make it up to you, Pop, I
MIKEY: I'll make it up to you, Pop, I
BERNIE: It's on me.
SHELLY: ( shakes his head ) That's the worst fucking call you ever made in your life.
BERNIE: What are you doing?! I thought we 150 G's buys their lives. This is just a little slap on the wrist to remember me by.
SHELLY: 150 G's buys their lives. This is just a little slap on the wrist to remember me by.
CHARLENE: Oh god. it wasn't my idea.
SHELLY: You know, motherhood is a beautiful thing. This. you made a mockery out of it. Maybe you'll get to experience it for real one day.
CHARLENE: ( nods, sobbing ) I want. to be a mother. please don't hurt me.
SHELLY: I'm not going to hurt you.
SHELLY: ( to Tony and Lou ) Get 'em outta here. You ever see them in this joint again, kill 'em.
SHELLY: ( to Bernie and Natalie ) You two, you're still on shift.
BERNIE: I did this to myself. I planted the seed. When Angela took off with Mikey, I didn't. I never made an effort to get back in his life. I figured, the kid don't need a loser for a father. Now it's all come full circle. I give him the money, I open the door to all this. I musta had it coming. Payback.
NATALIE: Bernie, it's a big world out there. If you just took off if we took
NATALIE: You awake, Bernie?
NATALIE: I think I love you.
NATALIE: No, I don't think. I'm pretty certain of it.
NATALIE: You blind-sided me, Bernie Lootz. I never saw this coming. You shouldn't do that to a girl.
NATALIE: There's still things you don't know. should know. I don't want to ruin
BERNIE: It won't make any difference, Natalie. Whatever you come clean about, I'm not gonna feel any different about you. I'd say the words, but with my Say 'em anyway. To hell with rotten luck. That's overs.
NATALIE: Say 'em anyway. To hell with rotten luck. That's overs.
BERNIE: ( a beat ) I love you, Natalie.
BERNIE: The cat jumps off his chest and slinks over to her empty food bowl. Meows again. Bernie breaks into a wide smile.
BERNIE: Trix. You came back.
DAY!: Bernie lets out a joyful whoop! Leaps out of bed.
SHELLY: ( into phone ) Yeah, it's me. Get Bernie over to crap table six.
BERNIE: ( looking around ) Got any cre
BERNIE: Duty calls.
FLOOR MANAGER: Hey, Shelly, check it out. The new Mega-Million. I call her Marnie, 'cause she's one frigid broad. Sure, once in a while she'll flash you a bit of tit, but your chances of hitting a home run one in twenty million. Here, give her a shot.
SHELLY: ( feeding Marnie quarters ) You wanna tell me what's going on out there?
BERNIE: I don't know.
SHELLY: What do you mean.
SHELLY: ( reacts with surprise ) What do you mean, you don't know? We're down almost a mil out there. Doesn't seem strange to you?
BERNIE: ( shrugs ) Guess I'm having an off day.
SHELLY: You don't have off days, Lootz. You're shitty luck incarnate. What's wrong? You coming down with something? You've got this look about you.
BERNIE: Nothing's wrong. Fact is, I've never felt better.
SHELLY: What's that supposed to mean?
BERNIE: She loves me, Shelly. She told me last night. Natalie.
FLOOR MANAGER: Sweet Jesus. you popped her
SHELLY: Natalie? She told you, she loves
SHELLY: Put that fucking thing out!
NATALIE: You should be. You've gone and fucked it up big time. I paid you to be his cooze companion, not his fucking true love. But, no, you had to go and get all profound on the poor "I love you, Bernie." You know what you've gone and done, sweetheart? Those four little words of endearment have already cost this casino a million and counting today.
SHELLY: You should be. You've gone and fucked it up big time. I paid you to be his cooze companion, not his fucking true love. But, no, you had to go and get all profound on the poor "I love you, Bernie." You know what you've gone and done, sweetheart? Those four little words of endearment have already cost this casino a million and counting today.
NATALIE: I don't understand.
SHELLY: ( jumps to his feet ) Lady luck. You never heard'a lady luck?! That's what's goin' on out there. Lootz is Kryptonite on a stick. He should have 'em throwing ice cubes out there, but instead I got a fuckin' meltdown on my hands.
SHELLY: OK, here's what's gonna happen. You're outta his life by the time he gets home. Don't even tell him to his face, just leave a note. I'll make some calls, situate you at another I can't do that.
NATALIE: I can't do that.
SHELLY: ( right in her face ) Excuse me?
NATALIE: It wasn't an act. I meant it. I love What's there to fuckin' love? He's a loser. Always has been, always will I thought you were his friend.
SHELLY: ( close to losing it ) What's there to fuckin' love? He's a loser. Always has been, always will I thought you were his friend.
NATALIE: I thought you were his friend.
SHELLY: And I thought you were a smart cookie when I picked you out. You do not want to fuck me over, darlin'. I'll see to it that your next John's a rattlesnake out in the desert. Now get the fuck outta here.
BERNIE: Hi. Any of you seen Natalie around? I'm supposed to give her a ride home.
BERNIE: ( calls to the bathroom ) Natalie? You in there?
BERNIE: ( sotto )
SERIES: A A man with a fresh bankroll sits at a card table full of hubris. Bernie pulls up a chair next to him. B We see a crowd of players hovering over a busy craps table. The cheerful congregation turns sour as the dice are flung. Players groan as they jettison the table, leaving just Bernie. C We see a dealer pull a six card twenty one as players sit with twelves and thirteens. They sit stunned as their money is swept away. The same man with the hefty bankroll unclips the last of his green. He throws it over to the dealer to change in. D Larry, roaming the floor, is visibly disturbed by Bernie's cooling ability. It's something he can't quantify and it unsettles him. He glances up toward Shelly's observation window, knows the man is gloating. Good call. From behind the glass, Shelly lights up a stogey. Hint of a smile. You go, Bernie.
BERNIE: I want you to tell me the truth, Shelly. Did you say something to Natalie? Did you muscle her
SHELLY: Jesus, Bernie, is that what you think of me? That I would fuck with your happiness? That hurts.
BERNIE: This guy's all flash. No soul. I miss Buddy. Place isn't the same without him.
SHELLY: Buddy was tired. I gave him an easy out. It coulda been a lot worse.
BERNIE: ( confused ) You gave him an easy out? What are you talkin' about? I thought he.
SHELLY: He woulda never taken the buy-out offer. Buddy woulda stuck to his guns, no matter what. And they woulda ended up hurting him. I couldn't let that happen.
BERNIE: Jesus. you. How can you sit here and justify it? Like you were Dr. Kevorkian or something?
SHELLY: Listen to me, you dumb fuck I loved that sonofabitch. But his time was up. What I was supposed to do, leave him to those corporate wolves? What I did, it was the humanitarian thing. That I have no doubt about. Afterwards, I held him in my arms and I cried like a fucking baby. What? You got this look what's this fucking look?
NATALIE: Bernie? You awake?
BERNIE: Let's just take off.
NATALIE: Let's just take off.
NATALIE: I mean it. Let's just pack up and go. Tonight.
BERNIE: ( closes his eyes ) I can't do that. I've got an obligation to Shelly. There's no
NATALIE: Fuck Shelly. He doesn't give a shit about you. Let's just climb into your car and get the hell out of
BERNIE: I can't do that, Natalie. They'd come after me. And because you were with me. I wouldn't want that on
NATALIE: Just hold me.
NATALIE: Hey! Ouch! What are you.?
NATALIE: You got no fucking right.!
SHELLY: What did I tell you?! What did I fuckin' tell you?!
NATALIE: I tried. I couldn't.
SHELLY: I don't give a fuck!
SHELLY: You're gone, sweetheart. History. Kiss paradise goodbye.
NATALIE: ( hysterical ) I can't leave! I won't! I love him. Doesn't that mean anything to you, you heartless fuck?
SHELLY: Who the fuck do you think you are? You ain't nobody! I could make you disappear like this. And nobody would ever notice you were gone. Nobody!
NATALIE: ( yells ) Bernie would! I got friends! You don't fuckin' own me. You got no Fuck you!
NATALIE: Fuck you!
SHELLY: You fuckin' cunt.
SHELLY: You think that's bad? That's just a taste, bitch. You're still here when Bernie gets home and I'll finish the job. I'll cut you into so many fuckin' pieces, the vultures'll be trading on you for a month.
SHELLY: Here. go get yourself some cosmetic
BERNIE: Bernie fumbles for the light switch.
BERNIE: ( closing the door ) Did you take something? I got some aspirin in the
NATALIE: Yeah. I already took something.
BERNIE: He cuts himself on a splinter of shattered glass as he staggers to his feet. Which draws his attention to the mirror. Moonlight glows off the edges. That's all there is edges. On the dresser: his bottle of Ten High. Empty. Confused, Bernie fumbles his way over to Natalie on the bed.
BERNIE: Natalie, what happened? The mirror.
BERNIE: He jerks back, flips on the nightstand lamp.
NATALIE: Bernie, no! Shit.
BERNIE: Oh Jesus. Natalie, who did this to you? We need to call the police.
NATALIE: I love you, Bernie. I just want you to know that. I fell in love with you. That wasn't part of the plan. I thought. easy money.
BERNIE: What are you saying?
NATALIE: Shelly. He paid me to get next to you. To keep you around. Whatever it You got it right the first night. I was for sale. Bought and paid for. You were the easy mark, Bernie.
BERNIE: ( a whisper ) You got it right the first night. I was for sale. Bought and paid for. You were the easy mark, Bernie.
NATALIE: You got it right the first night. I was for sale. Bought and paid for. You were the easy mark, Bernie.
NATALIE: At first you were just another John. But then I started to take a closer look. For the first time, here was someone who wasn't trying to hustle me. Wasn't pretending to be somebody he wasn't. Just a decent guy trying to get back on track. And it didn't hurt any that you put me up on a pedestal. It sure puts the gutter into perspective.
BERNIE: ( still in disbelief ) Shelly wants me gone. He says I bring you luck. Lady luck. I stayed. to tell you to your face. and then you wouldn't want me no more. and I could just go.
NATALIE: Shelly wants me gone. He says I bring you luck. Lady luck. I stayed. to tell you to your face. and then you wouldn't want me no more. and I could just go.
BERNIE: We gotta get you to the hospital. We'll talk about this later.
NATALIE: Just tell me one thing, Bernie. Tell me there's gonna be a later.
BERNIE: They embrace with an intensity that threatens to merge their atoms into a single being.
NATALIE: Tell me again, Bernie. Tell me it's all gonna be okay.
BERNIE: Everything's gonna be fine. This is our time. This is you and me and we're going for it.
BERNIE: You look in the mirror, you don't like what you see, don't believe it. You look in my eyes. That's the only mirror you gonna need. Look in my eyes, Natalie.
BERNIE: I love you. Marry me?
HOURS.": BOOM DOWN as Bernie carries Natalie out of the chapel, their lips fused together.
NATALIE: You don't have to do this, Bernie.
BERNIE: Yeah, I do. I have to tell him right to his face. I will not look over my shoulder for the rest of my life our lives.
NATALIE: Bernie, your chart. that first night. I wasn't being straight with you. It's the worst chart I've ever seen. There's nothing in the cards for you. I'm scared.
BERNIE: Don't you see, that was before you opened your heart to me. Everything's different now. I got lady luck on my side. Ain't nothing gonna happen to
NATALIE: It's three thousand dollars. Take it. Maybe Shelly'll accept it as a down payment. We can send him the rest in installments. after we get I don't think
BERNIE: I don't think
NATALIE: Take it.
BERNIE: Whatever happens, I
NATALIE: ( abrupt ) I know, Bernie.
NATALIE: ( sotto; gentle ) I know.
SHELLY: Bernie, what's the matter? You look a little fucking spooked.
BERNIE: You lay another finger on her, I swear to God I'll kill you. You hear me? I'll fuckin' kill you!
SHELLY: Will you excuse me for a moment?
BERNIE: ( a hoarse whisper ) Why? Why, Shelly?
SHELLY: Because you never give up a good thing, Bernie. You are a good thing. The best fuckin' cooler there ever was. And I need him back.
BERNIE: He ain't never comin' back.
SHELLY: That's a dead man talking.
BERNIE: I'm through with this joint, Shelly. Natalie and me, we just got married. We're outta here. I'll get a job out there in the world. Send you half my paycheck every month. Make good on my obligations.
SHELLY: ( gets in Bernie's face ) You try to walk on me, Bernie, and I'll fuckin' bury you. The both of I don't think so.
BERNIE: I don't think so.
BERNIE: You whack me, then Bernie Lootz ain't the world's biggest loser no more. That honor's gonna fall upon you, Shelly. And maybe you had it all What the fuck? Me? I'm the loser?
SHELLY: What the fuck? Me? I'm the loser?
BERNIE: What you got? What do you got in your life besides this joint?
SHELLY: What the fuck more do I need?
BERNIE: You got nothin', Shelly. This place your legacy it's a mirage. You turn your back and it don't even exist. There's no day, there's no night, it's all just one big fuckin' blur and it don't count for nothin'!
SHELLY: You believe this fuckin' guy?
BERNIE: I feel real sorry for you. Yeah, you got this fear of germs thing. But it goes deeper than that. You can't get close to no one. On an emotional level. You're the worst kind of gambler there ever was: too scared to put his chips on the table. Too scared to open his heart. to extend any real kinda friendship. Always afraid it's gonna end out in the desert. Well, sweet fuckin' dreams, pal, 'cause I'm out and if that's where it ends, that's where it ends.
SHELLY: That's a real heartfelt speech, Lootz. All that Jimmy Stewart in ya face intensity. You almost sold me. Man, I've got a fucking lump in my But it still don't change things. You bail on me without making good on my 150 G's and I'm gonna be forced to close the books on you. You and the broad. You leave me no choice.
BERNIE: Change only.
CROUPIER: Check change three thousand.
BOXMAN: This a pleasure cruise, Bernie?
BERNIE: You could say that.
BOXMAN: Well, it'll be a short one. Table's It is now, anyway.
CROUPIER: It is now, anyway.
STICKMAN: Yo Eleven! Pay the line.
STICKMAN: Winner seven!
STICKMAN: Six easy. Easy way six!
BERNIE: ( sotto ) Natalie. this is you.
BERNIE: For the boys.
STICKMAN: Okay, we're coming out. Get your YO bets, C&E, any seven.
TONY: Shelly, take a look at number 4.
SHELLY: ( to the boxman ) How much is he up?
BOXMAN: Around three hundred thousand.
SHELLY: Why didn't one of you fucking geniuses call me?
BOXMAN: We tried. You weren't picking up. Besides, it was Bernie.
STICKMAN: Alright. We're coming out folks, hands high.
BERNIE: Everybody quiets down to listen.
BERNIE: Color me up a hundred fifty thousand. And give it to him.
BERNIE: That's what I owe you, Shelly. There it is. We're square. Let it be known, Bernie Lootz lives up to his obligations.
BOXMAN: One hundred fifty thousand, coming
LARRY: What's the matter with you? He's one of ours and he's taking us to the fucking cleaners.
SHELLY: Lootz's off the clock. As long as he's off the clock, he's free to play. Just like every other schmuck in this joint.
LARRY: It smells wrong. I'm shutting him down. He's not leaving here with a
SHELLY: Now you listen real good, you Harvard turd. Lootz is on the up-and-up. He leaves here tonight with whatever he comes out with. You so much as touch a hair on his head and I'll fucking wallpaper this joint with your ass. Muted tones, right? What's that? I don't hear nothing. Wait a minute yeah, now I hear
STICKMAN: Crap ace deuce! Line down!
STICKMAN: Call it.
CROUPIER: Twelve crap.
BERNIE: Fifty thousand dollars!
BERNIE: Come on sixty-six!
NATALIE: Thank God. I thought for sure.
NATALIE: It's okay, right? You guys worked it out. He took the three grand? Tell me it's okay, Bernie?
LOU: Want me to get that, Shelly?
NATALIE: What are you stopping for?
BERNIE: I think I'm gonna.
BERNIE: Bahamas, here we come, baby.
COP: Step out of the car please.
BERNIE: ( lowers the window ) What's the problem, officer?
COP: Just step out of the car, please. Both of you. If my driving. if I was going a little fast I was just over excited, officer. See, we just had a big win at the Shangri-la
BERNIE: If my driving. if I was going a little fast I was just over excited, officer. See, we just had a big win at the Shangri-la
COP: You didn't win nothing.
NATALIE: Oh Jesus, Bernie, I knew it. It was too good to be true. Who were we Get down on your knees. Both of you.
COP: Get down on your knees. Both of you.
NICKY: The kid wants you should know, Shelly, he's just protecting our investment the old school way. See you around.
BERNIE: He was drunk. It was just freak
NATALIE: Don't give it a name, Bernie. It scares me. All I know is, you're still running hot and that's a good thing. But we're only winners if we keep going. No looking back.
BERNIE: Lady luck, Natalie. I'm calling it. Lady luck. And we got it as long as we're together. They can't touch us
LARRY: ( beat ) I thank you for your vote of confidence. As the Shangri-la's new Director of Casino Operations, I'm gonna make a personal guarantee to each and every one of you. Your investment in this casino will be well looked after. The future looks bright, gentlemen. Very, very bright.
THE END: Writers : Frank Hannah Wayne Kramer
