HELEN: Our society creates these socially and psychically disenfranchised men, and their revenge on society is terrible. They are hard to catch. They are "the nice guy next door," their employers if they work at all find them quiet and uncomplaining. Early abuse and rejection have taught them passivity. Only in their violent fantasies do they feel alive. What they seek in their frenzied assaults on their victims is relief from passivity. For these men, ten minutes relief is worth far more than the life of another human being. Torture, the pain they inflict, the screams of the victim, are all part of the ritual that gives them a brief respite from their own psychic pain. And then the depression, the forgetting, the feeling of sadness and despair begins the cycle all over again. Like addicts seeking their drug, Albert DeSalvo, Bianchi and Buono, Berkowitz, Dahmer, Bundy they seek out their next victim. During the second half of this speech, the eye of the camera has moved slowly forward until it settles just behind the balcony railing.
HELEN: The cycle is endless until they are caught. And they are caught by chance they run a red light, and a body is in the trunk. A leaking pipe brings a plumber to a basement where they is the smell of death. Her eyes have come to rest on the spot of the camera eye in the balcony. Her voice chokes off. She stares.
HELEN: At any time, right now, as you listen, the FBI estimates there are 30 to 35 serial killers stalking their victims. The serial killer is a plaque that must be addressed not only by the law, but by science. Florida spent eight million dollars to execute Ted Bundy. It would have been better spent building a forensic penal facility devoted to Once again her eyes fix on the balcony to reassure herself that the smiling man is not there.
HELEN: Confined for life, without parole, and subjected to scientific study, these men's lives might finally, in some small measure, educate and thereby protect society. Thank Applause as Helen warily checks for the TWO COPS. They are carefully casing the crowd.
STAGE AREA: The audience and SECOND COP react to the gunshots. HELEN, her eyes bulging, struggling against the rope.
HELEN: Andy! Andy! She races through this LOFT APARTMENT ( THE WALLS ARE EIGHT FEET UNDER A TWELVE-FOOT CEILING ) to study opening off a hall. She looks in, gasping for breathing.
HELEN: It is October twelfth, 1994 in the city of San Francisco, California, U.S.A., the strongest, richest, most stable and happiest country in the world. That is the sole place of life in the universe. Under CLOSE: XANAX BOTTLE. Two pills are shaken out into a palm, others scattering from the nervous haste. CLOSE: HELEN Watching herself in BATHROOM mirror as she tosses down the pills, gulps water. She regards her haggard reflection with a certain detachment.
HELEN: Good God. What happened to you? She barks a rueful laugh. we are seeing a woman will herself from near-hysteria to relative calm.
CHESSMASTER: 'It's almost seven. Make a goddam She studies the chess set-up for a moment, then makes a move. She has not even hit the Keyboard of the other computer before CHESSMASTER sends another message.
CHESSMASTER: 'Lousy move. Not really into this game, Helen. Let's drop it. I've got a feeling about you. Let's meet. Like a date.' HELEN types the following to CHESSMASTER.
HELEN: 'I'm a terrible date. I'd mess up your 'Another romantic dream gone all to 'Maybe it's better to just dream on; avoid the disappointments of life. Come on, move.' She pushes a button on the remote, and we see the window curtains open. BRIGHT SUNLIGHT STREAMS IN! We see that the T-shirt HELEN wears says "Shrinks 'R' Us." She crosses to the window with her glass of cognac, looks out.
CHESSMASTER: 'Another romantic dream gone all to 'Maybe it's better to just dream on; avoid the disappointments of life. Come on, move.' She pushes a button on the remote, and we see the window curtains open. BRIGHT SUNLIGHT STREAMS IN! We see that the T-shirt HELEN wears says "Shrinks 'R' Us." She crosses to the window with her glass of cognac, looks out.
HELEN: 'Maybe it's better to just dream on; avoid the disappointments of life. Come on, move.' She pushes a button on the remote, and we see the window curtains open. BRIGHT SUNLIGHT STREAMS IN! We see that the T-shirt HELEN wears says "Shrinks 'R' Us." She crosses to the window with her glass of cognac, looks out.
HELEN: ( carefully ) ( listens ) You son-of-a-bitch! Son of a bitch. Stiff with fear and rage, she slams down phone.
HELEN: On the computer screen behind her the Chessmaster makes his move: the computer speaks in its tiny computer voice:
COMPUTER: ( filter ) You Queen is in check. Protect your Queen.
A SCREAM!: END TITLE AND CREDITS: INT. RIFLE RANGE - DAY MUZZLE OF SEMI AUTOMATIC PISTOL BLASTS NINE SHOTS ALMOST DIRECTLY INTO CAMERA. A BEAT OF SILENCE. THE TARGET: it is a silhouette of a man's head and torso; centered in the right side of the upper chest, near the shoulder, is a small red circle. Still SMOKING, THE HOLES FROM THE BULLETS are scattered all over the chest, and none in the circle.
RUBEN: Yeah, but she had divine guidance. We now take in the shooter, RUBEN, and his companion M.J. HALLORAN. M.J. is a small, deceptively vulnerable looking young woman. She is neat, buttoned down, crisp. M.J. appears to be about twenty-five. She is, in fact, thirty-four and a homicide inspector with the rank of sergeant. She is usually dressed in slacks and a loose sweater or an oversize jacket that helps make her appear even smaller and younger than she is. RUBEN GOETZ is also in homicide, about twenty-six and junior in authority to M.J. RUBEN is good-looking, good-humored and laid back. He has a cellular phone attached to his M.J. PULLS THE LINE THAT DOLLIES THE TARGET BACK TO THEM, AND RUBEN REPLACES IT WITH ANOTHER AS THEY TALK. I'd feel a whole Sister Loretta for my backup. Look at this guy: you shredded him!
RUBEN: Well, he's dead, he can't hurt me The target is rigged; they pull the line that dollies it back to shooting position.
RUBEN: I've been practicing. Now can I kiss your tummy? M.J. hides her smile as she prepares her weapon for her turn.
RUBEN: I'm sure she thinks it is. Aren't you at least interested in which one it is? She's lost her concentration lowered the gun; now as he answers, she raises her gun and aims.
RUBEN: ( into phone ) I'm here, where are you?. Heeeeyyy! What a surprise! No. On duty, have to call you back. You, too, you too. My God, you made my He hits the "end" button.
RUBEN: You know, M.J., when I watch you shoot, I realize I've got a little problem with my stance. could you just move over here and critique my He slaps his thigh where he indicates the trouble might be. She is unloading her weapon.
RUBEN: I tell my shrink about Sergeant. I tell him you're the top cop of my dreams. Ruben has been gathering up his box of doughnuts, from which he has nibbled during the preceding. he drops them, picks one up off the floor and sticks it in his mouth.
RUBEN: He's in love with you already.
RUBEN: Hey. And there's the Haircut right behind. If she stops short he's gonna be there feet up her ass.
SUSAN: ( on camera ) Inspector, can you.
SUSAN: .confirm this third murder adds up to a pattern? Do we have a serial killer on the loose in the I just got here. Talk to you What the hell does she want to do, scare everybody to death?
RUBEN: That's her job. Jesus, Quinn is here already. QUINN, a splenetic Irishman, a politician, Chief of Homicide stands at the top of the steps leading to the front door. As they climb up toward him.
QUINN: I been waiting. I have to do everything myself. Photo, crime tech, the Coroner are already inside. The Landlady calls it in; tenant is not answering when called, she sticks her head in, sees the body, uses the deceased's telephone to call 911. Otherwise nothing disturbed. It's all yours, kid. I'll take care of the Mouth and the Haircut. M.J. and Ruben enter.
MIKE: I was.
MIKE: Michael Johnson.
MIKE: No. I didn't. She glances at him, at the SLIGHTLY OLD INFLECTION ON THE "I DIDN'T." But moves on, as Ruben goes to the Landlady.
DOC: You got it. Same as the other two.
PHONE VOICE: ( extremely cheerful ) Hello! This is Geena Martinez, how are you this morning?
PHONE VOICE: I'm conducting a telephone survey to determine whether you're satisfied with your insurance on your personal valuables. M.J. gently hangs up the phone. She has been looking at the Dead Woman. They pick up where they left off.
DOC: He used something soft, like a stocking or a bathrobe tie.
MIKE: Well, there's something missing in there. There was something around her neck when I came in there, but it's gone now.
MIKE: Lieutenant Quinn. She seems relieved. Brightly:
PHOTOGRAPHER: Don't tell your Grandmother how to suck eggs. I only been doing this work since your junior prom, But M.J. is already on to other things.
HELEN'S POV: The newspaper lies there, out of reach.
HELEN: As she stretches out her foot toward the paper, can't reach POV. As she moves out into the hall her agoraphobia manifests itself: DISTORTED VISION THAT MAKES THE HALL
SUSAN: . continues to stonewall the public. Now. There is a knock, but before QUINN can respond, M.J. enters.
QUINN: Shut up. He and M.J. both listen to SUSAN.
SUSAN: . third Bay Area woman has been strangled, but the police continue to deny that this is the work of one killer. Lt. Thomas Quinn declares that the murders will be treated as unrelated crimes, unless new evidence.
QUINN: I tagged the goddamned stocking. It ain't lost. We're sequestering that evidence. That's the trap some son of a bitch is going to fall Am I in charge of this thing? Or I said you were.
QUINN: I said you were.
NH: Then I decided what evidence we choose to sequester.
QUINN: ( a beat here ) Okay. What do you want to The stocking around the neck. A long moment of looking at each other. Then.
QUINN: You didn't say serial killer and I didn't say serial killer.
QUINN: ( not satisfied she This is the anniversary of the summer of love and your city fathers have declared a Festival of Love. The Mayor and Chamber of Commerce don't want TV announcing killers on the loose.
QUINN: We're gonna have a bunch of clapped out old hippies blissing on the Grateful Dead! Sleeping in the park, smoking dope and sticking tulips up their ass.
NIKKO: Harvey, I don't want you in here no more, making false statements.
CONFESSOR: They are not false. We pay for city government like this, you don't even care about the truth?! I killed her in the bathtub.
NIKKO: Because she was dirty, a dirty How? How did you do it, Harvey?
CONFESSOR: Because she was dirty, a dirty How? How did you do it, Harvey?
NIKKO: How? How did you do it, Harvey?
HARVEY: With a knife?
NIKKO: Good guess, but not good enough. Get the fuck outta here. He has stood as M.J. passes coming from Quinn's office. He falls into stride with her through the crowded scene. He is sweaty and sniffs his armpits as a matter of general hygiene checkup.
NIKKO: What am I wasting my time with this shit for?
NIKKO: Not what I meant; why
NIKKO: Got me. That really hurt! You. Ruben joins them; Nikko stifles and turns away.
RUBEN: It's mostly done, they got nobody in common, the three of them. No mutual friends the Landlady says nobody was ever there, she never saw her with anybody. They are approaching PACHULSKI'S desk. PACHULSKI is on phone. Pachulski is looking at M.J., grinning.
PACHULSKI: ( into phone ) Yes, ma'am, I know. You can't talk her right now. because she's busy, she's all tied up. ( sotto to M.J. ) Deep Throat's back. He hits the speaker phone.
PACHULSKI: ( whispering ) Fourteen calls from this broad. And she ain't stupid. M.J. signals for GIGI to trace the call. Takes the phone, switches off the speaker.
HELEN: Who is this?
PACHULSKI: ( amused ) Ask her about the moon bike.
HELEN: What is wrong with you people? The first two, I thought he might be on a lunar cycle because they were 28 days apart, but obviously not. This new one is only two Pachulski is delighted at the joke he's played on M.J., M.J. not so much. Gigi signals they're getting it. You want to joke about moonbikes?!
HELEN: You're calling me a crank?
HELEN: I think this is number three.
HELEN: Where were you? Don't tell me. It's just under seventy, right? The sun is strong but the air is dry and fresh.
ANDY: Would you please get your hands off my face, Tallulah? What happened to the newspaper? He withdraws a popsicle from the bag, offers it to her. When she rejects it, he takes it for himself.
HELEN: I got it myself. I couldn't wait.
ANDY: Well! Aren't we the daring one? What's morbid and ghastly enough in the news to make Doctor Helen set foot outside her door? The antenna is gone off her car again. I had no music, all the way to the market. Let me find a garage for They're in the kitchen area; Andy unpacking stuff. expensive goodies.
HELEN: I've told you: I can't afford to garage it.
ANDY: Are you kidding? You buy enough gourmet junk every week. most of which rots. to garage a fleet of stretch limos.
HELEN: I had the dream again. And I got another call. This time he spoke. He said "You and me, you and me."
ANDY: A little heavy breathing is what most of us yearn for. Forget it.
HELEN: He whispered, but it was know it was him! Andy now stops to address this seriously.
ANDY: He can't phone you unless the warden gets an okay from you. Did you give him an approval?
HELEN: Andy? When a three-year-old says there's a monster under the bed, you don't say 'forget it'. You look under the bad. I'm three years old. Call the Her fear is so palpable, she is so nakedly vulnerable it breaks his heart. He puts his arms around her.
HELEN: Oh God. I'm really crazy.
ANDY: When was the last time you washed your hair?
HELEN: ( shaky, but trying ) Monsieur Andy, disapproves of my Monsieur Andy can coiffure. And guess what else? He pats her thighs. she walks to the window as he talks.
ANDY: Monsieur Andy can coiffure. And guess what else? He pats her thighs. she walks to the window as he talks.
ANDY: Cellulite. What do you say I blindfold you and take you to the gym. Aerobics with housewives.
HELEN: Andy has heard this tone before: panic attack alert.
ANDY: Here we go again.
HELEN: You parked right behind him. The one I noticed earlier. I didn't say anything, I thought he'd leave. Just take a look.
ANDY: Oh my God! Help! HE'S READING A
NEWSPAPER!: But earlier, he was staring up here. Please, Andy.
HELEN: But earlier, he was staring up here. Please, Andy.
ANDY: Okay. You win. 'Dirty Harry' coming up. ANDY leaves the apartment.
ANDY: Excuse me, but would you mind explaining why you're watching the lady upstairs?
RUBEN: None of your fucking business. Usurping RUBEN'S aggressive attitude, ANDY leans his face close to RUBEN'S window.
ANDY: Listen, asshole, I've got a gun. RUBEN grabs ANDY by the collar and yanks his head inside the car. With the other hand he pulls his gun and pushes it up ANDY'S nose.
RUBEN: I hate this.
ANDY: Only kidding! RUBEN pushes the 'up' button on the window, capturing ANDY'S head in a deadlock. Then he opens the door, gets out, slams door, forcing the squawking ANDY into a helpless frisk position. We HEAR HELEN scream, ( O.S. ). Ignoring this, RUBEN begins to frisk ANDY.
HELEN: I'm calling the police!
ANDY: ( trying to defuse ) I'm okay. I really kind of enjoyed Uncomfortable silence for a beat as they try to take in what's happening, who's who and what's what. Helen is confused, fighting back fear.
HELEN: Is he out?
HELEN: ( to Andy ) If he's not out, why are they here?
HELEN: What calls? I haven't made any Are you staying long? Shall I shut the door? Make your coffee? Make the beds?
ANDY: ( to distract ) Are you staying long? Shall I shut the door? Make your coffee? Make the beds?
HELEN: You were the one that talked about moonbikes and called me a crank? Oh God, I am! Make them some coffee. Halloran, is it? Investigator Goetz? I had a crank call myself he said. I thought it might be Daryll Lee Cullum. I thought he might be out of prison.
RUBEN: Daryll Lee Cullum? I don't think so. If he's escaped we'd have the National Guard, cops'd be crawling through sewers. You'd have a guard on your front door.
HELEN: You don't admire me. No police admire me. I got one of you killed. Why don't you say right out what you're here for?
HELEN: Yes, I did. Poor impulse control. The accounts of the firs two murders made it so clear they were the work of the same man, but you kept announcing they were unrelated. You'll never catch him that way. M.J. regards her for a moment.
HELEN: Well, let's thank God you and Inspector Goetz are on the case, Would you want to work with us on Oh, my God, no! I'm a clinical hysteric, with panic syndrome, and anxiety neurosis, agoraphobic, I'm afraid of everything, real and imaginary. I never leave this apartment now. Nobody ever comes here. I just wanted to get your attention. I write and I used to lecture on these crimes, but. I'm not competent.
HELEN: Oh, my God, no! I'm a clinical hysteric, with panic syndrome, and anxiety neurosis, agoraphobic, I'm afraid of everything, real and imaginary. I never leave this apartment now. Nobody ever comes here. I just wanted to get your attention. I write and I used to lecture on these crimes, but. I'm not competent.
HELEN: Inspector Halloran, that is so much bullshit, you don't like or admire me, but the beautiful part is I don't give a fuck. That's the upside of having a breakdown.
HELEN: Will you go. Andy, make them go.
HELEN: I don't want this. What are they?
RUBEN: You called us, Doctor, if you don't want to look at them here, how about downtown. I'll drive you She pushes the pictures off onto the floor, tries to get up to leave the room. M.J. and Ruben are both appalled at the force of what is happening: an all-out panic attack. Andy races t o the kitchen; Ruben tries to help but Helen fights him off viciously, gasping for air. Andy races back in with a PLASTIC BAG HE PULLS OVER HELEN'S HEAD AND FACE. She hyperventilates into the bag. THE PLASTIC BAG BALLOONS OUT AND BACK IN HELEN'S FACE until she faints. Andy deals with it like an everyday event, treating her very gently.
ANDY: ( to Ruben ) Now look what you did.
RUBEN: What did I do?
ANDY: You threatened to drive her downtown. She has agoraphobia.
RUBEN: Fear of what.
ANDY: Open space. She hasn't been out of this apartment in three years. I didn't used to think it was real. He's making her comfortable.
ANDY: Oh, God, uniforms, more stress. Let her sleep. It's a self-limiting: she hyperventilates till she passes out, then her breathing goes back to normal, and she wakes up singing like a lark. We know, don't we, Princess? Give her a couple of hours. I know about this. M.J. starts to gather up the pictures and files. She is angry and disgusted.
ANDY: Hey, no. Leave those here. If you really want her help. I mean if you really do, leave them. Let her see them. I'll see they're safe. M.J. takes in the scene; the now soundly sleeping Helen; Andy sitting over her protectively, the files and photos strewn around. Makes a decision.
RUBEN: ( amused ) Classy madonna.
RUBEN: You came in there with this Order Chinese for us and meet me the library? Anything but beef. She jumps in her car, still steaming, leaving Ruben to move to his car. AS HE MOVES CAMERA FOLLOWS, BECOMING A WIDER
ANDY: CUT TO: INT. POLICE LIBRARY - DAY CLOSE: AN ATTORNEY IN COURT . it was your feeling after careful evaluation that he was a sexual sadist who satisfied at least four out of ten criteria in the DMS III? SHOW M.J. and Ruben watching videotapes, and eating Chinese takeout. HELEN is being interrogated by the ATTORNEY for Daryll Lee Cullum. Helen sure of herself to the point of arrogance, which is her undoing.
ATTORNEY: . it was your feeling after careful evaluation that he was a sexual sadist who satisfied at least four out of ten criteria in the DMS III? SHOW M.J. and Ruben watching videotapes, and eating Chinese takeout. HELEN is being interrogated by the ATTORNEY for Daryll Lee Cullum. Helen sure of herself to the point of arrogance, which is her undoing.
HELEN: Yes. Without question.
ATTORNEY: Without question? He only scored 40 percent, four out of ten criteria? Couldn't another expert say he flunked the sexual sadist test? What curve are you marking on, Doctor?
HELEN: The test criteria are only part of what we look at in evaluating Only part. What else? What did you think of his claim that he tied this girl to the tree and set fire to her because Joan of Arc told him to do it.
ATTORNEY: Only part. What else? What did you think of his claim that he tied this girl to the tree and set fire to her because Joan of Arc told him to do it.
HELEN: He was lying.
ATTORNEY: 'Lying. He was lying.' I asked you what you thought, not what he I thought he was lying.
HELEN: I thought he was lying.
ATTORNEY: You said, first, he was lying. How do you know that, Doctor?
HELEN: Because people who are suffering from aural hallucinations hear voices in both ears. Daryll Lee told me that Joan of Arc always appeared beside him on his left side and spoke softly in his left Murmur of subdued laughter in court.
HELEN: ( emboldened ) He took pains to hide his actions because he knew they were morally wrong. He was not acting on mad impulse. He was sane and acting out a pattern he carefully followed every time.
ATTORNEY: ( playing causal ) What pattern was that?
HELEN: The same as the first time. She catches herself. The D.A. has leapt to his feet, but now tries to sit down as though nothing was happening, but Helen, the Attorney and the D.A. all are clearly disturbed by the line this questioning is taking.
ATTORNEY: The first what? Your Honor, she's got this far, I think she should finish. I don't think this jury should be left wondering where the rest of her statement would lead.
JUDGE: I agree, Doctor.
HELEN: The first two murders.
ATTORNEY: What first two murders. We don't know about them here, do we?
HELEN: ( giving up ) He told me he had done two others just like it.
ATTORNEY: When was that?
HELEN: When he was seventeen.
ATTORNEY: And you believed him when he told you he had done that.
HELEN: Yes. I believed him. The D.A. is rushing to the bench to argue with the Judge.
QUINN: There was no sperm.
QUINN: ( seeing HELEN on What are you looking at that for? Helen Hudson. Work the clues.
QUINN: Would you step outside, Sergeant? M.J. leaves a cautiously silent RUBEN. Once the door shuts, he turns tape back to 'play.'
QUINN: address me publicly in that tone. You'll work what and who I tell you to work.
QUINN: How about I put Nikko on it?
QUINN: You ever reflect how this big explosion in dead women coincides with the flowering of women's lib?
QUINN: You ever reflect how this big explosion in dead women coincides with the flowering of women's lib?
QUINN: Nikko's looking better by the minute, Inspector. He stomps off.
HELEN: Oh, God. I must have looked No, dear. You're at your best with a bag in front of your face.
ANDY: No, dear. You're at your best with a bag in front of your face.
HELEN: I want to die.
ANDY: I wouldn't. He'll be back. If you want him. The cute brutal type with handcuffs. Very sexy. HELEN grins, and ANDY starts to tickle her, she laughs.
ANDY: You thought he was cute too, didn't you? Admit. admit. HELEN now laughing a little too hard. Suddenly the laughter changes to tears.
ANDY: What? What'd I do?
HELEN: Reminded me that I used to be attractive. That men used to want you unless you shampoo your hair. She clings desperately to him. He rocks her as he would a small child.
ANDY: you unless you shampoo your hair. She clings desperately to him. He rocks her as he would a small child.
ANDY: When are you going to call them?
HELEN: ( big beat ) About what? ANDY PRODUCES THE FILE M.J. LEFT WITH HIM. Helen looks at it. Andy watches her.
HELEN: I can't, Andy.
ANDY: Then, why don't you just die. I'm going. They'll find your body years later, the old recluse lady, she ate cat food, ten years of the New York Times, unread, piled on top of the unread mail, the TV still on. Make up your mind. Live or die. I'll get coffee. He exits. After a moment fighting her fears, Helen reaches for the file. She opens it and looks at the first picture. THE PHONE RINGS. She freezes. Panic hangs in the air. Andy answers the phone in the kitchen.
NIKKO: Working late. You're a damn fool.
"ANOTHER ATTACK!": "HUDSON VICTIM OF BLOODY ATTACK. BODYGUARD SLAIN!" M.J. turns off the microfilm. The last headline is retained on screen:
NIKKO: You're almost ten years older than he is. M.J. turns off the microfilm. The last headline is retained on screen:
NIKKO: It's none of my business anymore.
NIKKO: You're shitting ion your career. You outrank hi. M.J. looks at him at last with wry amusement: he's jealous of Ruben?
NIKKO: Yeah. And you used that. Used
NIKKO: Yeah, you did that too. You earned what you got; don't shit on it, that's all I'm saying.
NIKKO: Think about it. RUBEN regards M.J., who busies herself examining the other What's wrong with him?
RUBEN: What's wrong with him?
RUBEN: Nada. Lemme make the call.
RUBEN: I like women like that!
HELEN: Except for this one. You put that one in to test me. M.J. nods, pleased with HELEN> INSERT: THE PICTURE. The victim's body is covered with bruises. But, unlike the others, her face has been covered.
HELEN: It was a lover or a husband. Someone close. Somebody who knew her and cared about her.
HELEN: He felt remorse. He covered her. HELEN arranges and rearranges photos like tarot cards.
HELEN: The bodies have been carefully arranged. different positions, but somehow the same. The positions are brutal. yet quite. artful. It's like. a signature. He's proud of his accomplishments. There are early Picassos and late Picassos, but you always recognize the hand. He wants us to recognize his hand. I've seen this hand before. what are you hiding?
HELEN: Where are the stockings he strangled them with?
HELEN: ( sarcastic ) I sent Andy out on murder missions. For God's sake it's the Boston Strangler, Alber deSalvo. He used their own stockings to strangle them. Tied in a bow-knot. She gets down a file from her bookcase and flops it open to pictures of deSalvo's victims: they are identical.
HELEN: Somebody is imitating his m.o. Look for a plumber or carpenter or handyman; that's how deSalvo got in the door and caught them off guard.
RUBEN: The Boston Strangler, when was In the sixties. He's dead stabbed to death in prison.
HELEN: In the sixties. He's dead stabbed to death in prison.
HELEN: If you knew why, you might know where to look for him. I don't envy you this; he's not done he's going to do them faster and faster to keep the adrenaline rush. Now, I've done what you asked me.
ANDY: It's good medicine.
RUBEN: A little homeopathic cure for the None of you know anything about it. Now go. And Andy, if you persist in playing doctor, leave, with I'm the only friend you've got, darling, and I don't intend to stop doing what I think is good for us.
HELEN: ( exhausted ) None of you know anything about it. Now go. And Andy, if you persist in playing doctor, leave, with I'm the only friend you've got, darling, and I don't intend to stop doing what I think is good for us.
ANDY: I'm the only friend you've got, darling, and I don't intend to stop doing what I think is good for us.
HELEN: Get out! All of you! Andy helps M.J. and Ruben scoop up the files.
RUBEN: You said you don't give a fuck and that's the beauty of a breakdown? This doesn't look like not giving a fuck, you know that?
QUINN: Aw, Jesus. The Mouth gets a load of this and we got major headlines around the world. deSalvo redux. The matter, you think they don't teach Latin in Catholic schools?
QUINN: Who've I got to beat up except the messenger? Does this give us anything to go on?
QUINN: ( morose ) I know. Get out here.
QUINN: Or for some new nutcase to copycat the copycat.
RUBEN: What I love, the big fight, some girl, she drops the quarter on her boyfriend so the bastard spends the night in custody, just to teach him a lesson. We'll get a shitload of Another country heard from. No. We're keeping it quiet, don't give the bastard the attention he's maybe begging for.
QUINN: Another country heard from. No. We're keeping it quiet, don't give the bastard the attention he's maybe begging for.
ANDY: She's in the office.
HELEN: That's the face of the next one he'll kill. She hasn't looked at them or the computer. SHE ROCKS.
HELEN: ( can't look at it ) Look at the bottom of the screen. You see the icon with the arrow pointing left? Click on that. RUBEN ( FROM A MISSPENT YOUTH IN VIDEO ARCADES ) expertly maneuvers the mouse and clicks on the icon as instructed.
HELEN: That computer's wired into
RUBEN: He's hacked into her Internet address. He's a hacker.
HELEN: ( rocking, rocking ) He can get into my computer any time he likes! This is exactly the kind of thing I didn't want to have Can you make a copy we can show on our computers?
HELEN: It's too big a file to copy to a You got a tape backup, yeah, here lemme copy it on tape.
RUBEN: You got a tape backup, yeah, here lemme copy it on tape.
HELEN: It's a game they like to play. Berkowitz "Son of Sam" hung around the crime scene, talking to the cops. This one's probably watching you, laughing at you.
RUBEN: Let me get a little action started M.J. nods to him to get along. He calls on his cellular phone while simultaneously working the computer.
HELEN: One officer already got killed trying to protect me. Please, just take it all away. Leave me alone.
RUBEN: Look at this.
HELEN: It's gone. The file's not here. What did you do?
RUBEN: I just started it copying to tape, but the tape never ran. It just did that.
HELEN: ( respect ) He's brilliant. This one is We'll show that to.
HELEN: Show what? It's gone. He wrote a self destruct virus into the code, so it would only play until we try to copy it. Then it erased itself. Do you remember what you saw?
QUINN: He's on the phone calling me like an insurance salesman soliciting my business, for Christ's sake. I didn't tell him the three most over-rated things in life are young pussy, regular exercise and the
QUINN: What? I talk like a cop, this is the way I talk. I can't believe this guy. Saks. He's a Deputy Assistant Director of the F.B.I. "Let me help you!"
QUINN: With the F.B.I. there's no such thing as a little help. They bury you with help. Explain to me about this virus, no don't tell me about the virus. Thing is, you saw it, the pictures. They pass through a door into a ROOM where the homicide team sit waiting. M.J. goes right into a briefing.
HUSBAND: Stupid goddam s-stupid p-poker game! Always have to s-stay until Phil makes a c.comeback. Am I The husband's voice follows QUINN and others as another COP leads them toward the back of house. DOOR TO BEDROOM. QUINN AND RUBEN have stopped just inside door. M.J. forced to peer around them. M.J.'S POV: On the bed, the RED-HEADED WOMAN'S body is propped up against the headboard, her knees up, her head fallen onto a shoulder: her pajama top has been ripped open and pushed up. Knotted around her neck is a pink scarf tied in a huge bow under her chin. On her feet, secured between her toes, is a commercial flyer advertising the Festival of Love. It is brightly printed with red hearts. It has been HELL IN THE FESTIVAL OF LOVE EXT. FESTIVAL OF LOVE IN GOLDEN STATE PARK - NIGHT CAMCORDER capturing the audience of a ROCK CONCERT in full blast, in GOLDEN GATE PARK. The audience, mostly young, some in 70's costume, sit and loll around on blankets. Most seem to have some variety of refreshment. liquid or rolled. The CAMERA records the unsteady progress of a lovely YOUNG GIRL, weaving her way through the blankets and the bodies. She suddenly becomes aware of the camera being aimed at her. She stops, strikes a comically seductive pose and gives a big, gorgeous smile. FREEZE FRAME.
ANDY: She just got to sleep. Do you have to tell her about it now?
ANDY: ( mock admiration ) Gaahhd! What a cop! You busted ( real ) The new one, in the Marina. ( to their reaction ) She has a police radio scanner. It's always on. She turns it off, and then she has to turn it on again. She's obsessed. She can't not listen to it, but she can't listen to it, so she makes me listen to it.
HELEN: I am not going to look at any more pictures. They're like a disease. They get into my head. I can't get them out.
HELEN: Maybe that's why you can't catch him. I know what she looks like the red-headed woman in my I just came from her. here's what you haven't seen. M.J. takes out a picture of the dead RED-HEADED WOMAN. Her manner is that of cop with a witness. A forgery of the Mary Sullivan murder scene, he's done it perfect. Except for the sign.
HELEN: ( looking at photo ) She probably let him in the door without a thought. Where are their mothers?! Where are the mothers that are supposed to teach them to be wary and to tough and not afraid to fight?
HELEN: ity. They write, they even knock on your door. They're fans. It thrills them to flirt with getting Nobody knows you have anything to do with this case; nothing has been on TV or the news. Why would he want to get in your computer?
HELEN: Because I'm his damned pin-up girl! His, all of them! They know me. They're in prisons with libraries, they collect clippings, I'm their worthy opponent. You keep my name out of this.
RUBEN: My promise. Andy, who has ducked out, now reappears, dressed for a date.
ANDY: The moon is up, my night to howl. Will you be okay?
HELEN: Oh, God, I forget. Yes. Yes. You go. Poor thing, you ought to get Look out for her. She's tougher than you think. He goes.
ANDY: ( to M.J. ) Look out for her. She's tougher than you think. He goes.
HELEN: I know 'Halloran.' What's the rest of it?
RUBEN: MaryJane. We call her M.J.
HELEN: MaryJane. You think that logic and police procedure, order and science and method will hold back the horrors of a world gone mad and the sickness of the night. I did once. But you know how he'll get caught? He'll have an accident, or some cop will get lucky. You can't catch him by being intelligent and working hard. Or the worst: there are dozens of women slaughtered in the most horrible way, month after month. The news stories grow more grotesque and bizarre and in the city people lock their doors and windows, and hurry home before dark. And then, one day, there are no more. What happened? Did he just stop? Get tired and disgusted and decide not to kill any more? Did he kill himself? Did he die in an auto accident? Or a fight. Or get sick and die? It's like the murderer walked off the edge of the earth. And you never know. But you keep asking yourself when you read about a new murder is he M.J. stands. She has noted Ruben's reaction to Helen's story. There is an edge of sarcasm in her voice.
HELEN: He's going home. He slept over because I was a little anxious.
RUBEN: ( to M.J. ) We're through for the night, aren't we? You go on. Get some sleep. I'll stay until we can get a man out here and maybe catch a cab That would be much appreciated. ( to Helen ) Somewhere down the line we're doing to find a connection between him and you. I want you to worry that idea like a loose tooth. Three voices chime self-conscious 'Good-nights.'
HELEN: That would be much appreciated. Somewhere down the line we're doing to find a connection between him and you. I want you to worry that idea like a loose tooth. Three voices chime self-conscious 'Good-nights.'
RUBEN: You ought to get some decent locks on these. A six-year-old could get in here. Much less a motivated At the phrase 'motivated man', HELEN looks at him boldly in the You and MaryJane aren't lovers.
HELEN: You and MaryJane aren't lovers.
RUBEN: Not yet. HELEN laughs. So does RUBEN. Her boldness, her laughter, attracts him. His honesty attracts HELEN. He feels the Are you always so bold?
HELEN: Are you always so bold?
RUBEN: No. I'm shy and I'm selective. His grin says he'd select her anytime.
RUBEN: The problem for me is. you're in the witness category. Know what I mean?
HELEN: Well. Another time, then. I'll be all right. He's not going to attack me; what I' m rally afraid of is all in my own head, They smile ruefully at one another, and without further conversation, leave the bedroom.
RUBEN: They'll have a guard here tomorrow. I know you have the idea, but it'll make me feel a lot better. She smiles, and RUBEN turns, walks away. She stays in the doorway watching his retreat. About ten feet away, he suddenly stops.
RUBEN: He turns around, she is still in the doorway. He reaches for his wallet, withdraws a card, holds it up to her.
RUBEN: The number for my cellular.
RUBEN: Don't hesitate. day. I mean that. He hods card out to her. HELEN, holding onto the door frame, doesn't move. RUBEN continues to extend his hand with the card in it. It is a charged moment. She is frozen in the doorway; RUBEN refuses to make a move towards her. HELEN summons all her nerve and lets go of the door frame, determined not to have any further mortification this night, she takes one shaky step out into the hallway to meet him. Then a second step and a third. Her hand touches the card, takes it. She turns her head to gauge the distance she must retreat. What she sees is that the door's Sureclose device has quietly and efficiently closed. The door is locked. Frantic, she turns back toward RUBEN.
HELEN: Oh, God! Help me! RUBEN reappears, races toward her.
RUBEN: Tell me what to do!
HELEN: I'm falling! I'm going to fall! She starts to pass out, to sink to her knees, but RUBEN catches her, puts her up against the wall, handling her like a suspect. He puts one hand on the back of her neck, spreads her legs, gets her in frisk position. Somehow, this is comforting to her, but she is still in full-blown .falling. FALLING! He pressed his body up against hers, his weight anchoring her against the feeling of free-fall.
HELEN: .falling. FALLING! He pressed his body up against hers, his weight anchoring her against the feeling of free-fall.
RUBEN: I'm right here. I won't let you He still has a hand on the back of her neck. Suddenly, the proximity effects him, makes him want to kiss her neck. She begins to hyperventilate.
HELEN: Don't let go. I can't breathe. I'll die!
RUBEN: Shhh. It's okay. Just breathe. I'll fix it. RUBEN takes out his gun.
RUBEN: Put your hands over your ears. RUBEN shoots off the lock. Then he picks HELEN up and carries her back into her apartment.
HELEN: The lock.
RUBEN: I'll get a locksmith.
HELEN: Will you stay? Please? I'm afraid to sleep. I don't want.him.in my head. RUBEN pulls a big chair up beside the sofa. As her eyes close, RUBEN comforts her. TV features the antics of a nervous little prairie dog family. He looks back at HELEN.
WOMAN: Put in the Kevin Costner.
PETER: Why don't we save it for later? It's almost time for Letterman.
WOMAN: You know I don't like to watch talk shows by myself. Where're you? He inserts the video she wants and pushes 'play.' Then he approaches the bed, leans over his wife and gently pushes a lock of hair back from the forehead. She ignores him, staring at the screen. The NASTY LITTLE
WOMAN: See, now you've annoyed her. You know she doesn't like you to touch Does she, widdle wee fing! Wuhve you so much! Did you feed her?
PETER: Yes, I fed her. If she says she's hungry, she's lying to you. Again.
WOMAN: She doesn't lie! You sure you fed She lies all the time. Why would I say I fed her if I didn't?
PETER: She lies all the time. Why would I say I fed her if I didn't?
WOMAN: That's what I don't know. Why would you lie? That's the problem. I can't understand why anyone would lie. He leaves. As he goes we can hear the Woman still talking to her dog over the TV soundtrack. You wouldn't lie to Mummy, would you? Just to get Dad in trouble? Such a naughty widdle dog. HER VOICE FADES AWAY AS WE FOLLOW HIM down the stairs into a small, ill-lit and dreary living room, into a messy kitchen, then through a door leading to the basement. He locks the basement door behind him. THE BASEMENT is brightly lighted, full of high tech, gadgets and computers. As he approaches the bottom stair, we see a small TV/video set attached to a wall. On its screen, freeze-framed and silent, is a video of a PRETTY GIRL at an outdoor rock concert, smiling seductively. PETER puts on a WHITE LAB COAT and then reaches over something to turn the video back on. The CAMERA PANS DOWN to what he has leaned across. It is the YOUNG GIRL from the concert. She is strapped onto a table, her mouth taped shut. A plastic bag covers her head, but not tightly. She is semiconscious. She is being asphyxiated by slow degrees. PETER looks at her, gently pushes the bag up far enough to repeat the tender gesture with her damp hair that he made toward his wife. He whispers:
PETER: Didn't I promise I'd come right EXT. HILLSIDE - DAWN ALL NIGHT FESTIVAL REVELLERS dance across the skyline, of glorious misty green hills, hand in hand. The Camera moves down, across verdant meadows, until we arrive at the bottom of the nearest hill which slopes finally to a highway. A few festival up-all-night REVELERS, looking down at a new CRIME SCENE, where three blue-and-whites are parked, plus a number of unmarked cars.
RUBEN: Up all night with a sick friend. NIKKO'S face is tight with anger.
NIKKO: You dumb son of a bitch! You don't even know how to treat a woman.
RUBEN: Who? M.J.? Hey, Nikko, explain to me why she gave you the boot. He moves to M.J. who stands beside the dead BODY OF THE WOMAN WE LAST SAW STRAPPED TO A TABLE. The plastic bag is now tied tight around her neck. She has been posed beneath a sign that says "NO DUMPING". The usual technicians, photographers, Doc, the Coroner, etc.
RUBEN: Is Niccoletti
DOC: Not likely. M.J. is kneeling, inspecting everything here; Ruben kneels beside her. to Ruben.
RUBEN: She didn't fight back, no hair or skin under her fingernails. I'm not seeing any bruises or What about her arms?
RUBEN: Needle marks, fresh, here. look at Nikko appears, looming over her.
NIKKO: Probably so stoned she never knew what got her. Like Goetz's sick friend. Right Goetz? They ignore him. M.J. stands.
RUBEN: She's blue as hell. No marks on her neck. Asphyxiated? not the same no ligature marks. Outdoors.
RUBEN: Spread out like she was sexually assaulted here.
DOC: After she was dead.
RUBEN: She was dragged up here from the road, you can see the tracks. She was already dead or unconscious. Let's get plaster casts on any all footprints.
NIKKO: Doped up kids all over town. Park was full of them last night. Very easy pickin'. Goetz's type. Ruben hits him, Nikko reflexively throws a punch that grazes Ruben. Everybody stops in astonishment. M.J. steps between them. Ready to get physical herself; they settle.
RUBEN: You're right. I can't stand that bastard. Sorry. This is something new. Not the same guy, that's for sure.
RUBEN: Look at him, grandstanding. Nikko is talking to Susan Schiff.
SUSAN: What's this about the Boston Strangler, M.J.? M.J. looks at Nikko. He should know better. She's also thinking: is this a good thing to have the media announce at this point or not?
SUSAN: Inspector, will you confirm somebody is copying the Boston Strangler? This is the fourth, is that correct?
RUBEN: Excuse me? You damn well better start working on that impulse control. A woman who is implicated in this case? Someone who's practically a piece of evidence?
RUBEN: It's against your rules that I try to help a witness who's scared shitless? Who's.
RUBEN: She loves me.
QUINN: I know; the kid hit you first. He already told me.
NIKKO: He's not treating her right.
QUINN: She left you, Nikko. She's not your responsibility. She takes very good care of herself. If she wants to romance the kid, it ain't your business. Your business is to snap out of it.
NIKKO: We were together six years, sir!
QUINN: Don't give me six years! You never divorced Patty, did you? So what'd you expect from M.J.?
NIKKO: She knows I'm Catholic! She never mentioned divorce! Not once!
QUINN: Then you shoulda known she wasn't buying. She was just long-term leasing' you. Ah, Nickie. Except for that rare twenty-second twitch, there ain't nothin' about sex I don't hate. But of course, I'm Irish. Plus I got real problems. I'm worried I might have to put you in over M.J. There's something going on here, the Commissioner is targeting her now, I can't leave a woman in that position. But the thing is, how can I move you in, if you go on acting like a teenage asshole?
NIKKO: I don't want the job. Don't do that to her. She's worked too damned hard for it.
QUINN: What's going down with the sting in Chinatown? That gonna be off your plate in a week or what?
QUINN: So what have we got?
QUINN: Christ. How old are you? You sure you want to be in this line of You're damn right I do.
QUINN: Okay, now what about your sidekick punching my favorite detective? What the hell is going on? You got no discipline in your operation.
QUINN: Where you going?
QUINN: What the hell you need her for?
HELEN: I'm not seeing anybody. We HEAR muffled voices ANDY and M.J. HELEN, as she realizes Andy is letting M.J. in, goes to the bathroom door and tries to slam and lock it: Andy beats her to it, blocking with his foot in the door.
HELEN: You're fired.
ANDY: I know. Do come and meet your M.J. appears. Taking in Helen's condition due to a wild night with Ruben? Helen moves from the bathroom down the hall to her office, as.
HELEN: That's no surprise.
HELEN: Then what do you need me for?
HELEN: You're saying it's the same man, but he's changed his style? That doesn't happen. These men are robotic; the murder is like a ritual. The method itself is part of the pleasure. They've turned into the office. Something is wrong.
HELEN: I turned it off. It's like an open window he can climb right in.
HELEN: Have you got a warrant? Get the hell out o here! This is the only space I have left in the world! Why can't you leave me out of it?
HELEN: That little Winona Ryder manner. you're more convincing as Clint Clint is putting a guard on you. But if you swear to leave the computer on, Winona will assign him to the hall outside. HELEN has to laugh. The laugh turns to a hacking cough.
ANDY: She's smoking again. Andy leaves. Helen sits, and with the care of someone handling a rattlesnake, turns the computer on. Meanwhile.
HELEN: Hello?. Oh. .yes, she's right here. HELEN hangs the phone to M.J. The air is a little more charged. Helen goes back to the computer.
HELEN: Hello, Ruben. So that's that.
HELEN: Please thank Inspector Goetz for taking care of me last night. M.J. delivers the message straight-faced.
HELEN: She was near a sign that said "No Dumping?" Two kinds of sperm the lab said one was a secretor and the other was not? M.J. mumbles a surprised yes. Helen is at computer.
HELEN: There were needle marks. But no drugs in her blood.
HELEN: Is that it?
"NO DUMPING.": He's switched from DeSalvo to the Hillside Strangler. The Strangler was two men, that's why there are two kinds of sperm. His idea of a joke, very witty our boy.
HELEN: He's switched from DeSalvo to the Hillside Strangler. The Strangler was two men, that's why there are two kinds of sperm. His idea of a joke, very witty our boy.
HELEN: Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. Tell them to test for the chemicals found in Windex. That's a product for cleaning I know Windex, for God's sake, I clean my own windows.
HELEN: It's what Bianchi and Buono injected into one of their victims.
HELEN: Ah, if you knew that, you'd be half way to nailing him. Serial killing is irrational and rigid and compulsive. This guy has a plan all thought out, flexible and complex. He's playing a game with us. Who will he imitate next? Maybe he's doing all the serial killers in history, the great innovators, the murderers' hall of fame. Just to prove he's better than all of them. They got caught; he didn't.
HELEN: Who's going to catch him? You? And if you do, there'll be another one. And one after that.
HELEN: This one, yes. I was always curious about these twisted little souls, but this is the first one I've felt personally terrified of. He's something new and unheard of. I don't know what he wants.
'KOPYCAT KILLER?': .to mimic the M.O. of the Boston Strangler. The police here are rumored to be consulting Dr. Helen O.S. A TOILET FLUSHES, and Peter's WIFE emerges wearing a nightgown. She shuffles back to the bed, and as she sits picks up the remote.
SUSAN: .to mimic the M.O. of the Boston Strangler. The police here are rumored to be consulting Dr. Helen O.S. A TOILET FLUSHES, and Peter's WIFE emerges wearing a nightgown. She shuffles back to the bed, and as she sits picks up the remote.
HELEN: You betrayed me! Now every psychopath in the city knows I'm back in business. You lied to me!
HELEN: Why should I trust you?
HELEN: How could you.
TECH GUY: Pulled this out of the door, it's bigger than a .38; it's a .44 or 9 CLOSE: M.J. is crawling along the floor, looking at everything she can find gum wrappers, hobby pins, loose change, etc. She lifts her head and finds the car radio and tape player right in her face.
RUBEN: Yeah?. I can't talk now. What?. No. There's no sexual assault, it's a drive-by, a woman in a car, it's not him. M.J. still pissed at the earlier phone call, turns away, It's a woman shot in a car?
RUBEN: Yes. I have to go.
HELEN: She on the passenger side?
HELEN: What's that music. It's Abba. I can hear it. It's Abba.
RUBEN: What's Abba?
HELEN: Don't hang up!
RUBEN: Listen to me. Is there a gas station nearby? RUBEN look around, sees a gas station across the street and further down the block.
HELEN: Listen to me. Is there a gas station nearby? RUBEN look around, sees a gas station across the street and further down the block.
RUBEN: Is there a phone booth there?
HELEN: Is there a phone booth there?
RUBEN: They all have one.
HELEN: Go and look for a note. RUBEN hands the phone over to M.J.
RUBEN: She wants me to check the phone booth for a note.
HELEN: She was listening to Abba in her parked car when she was shot with a Bulldog .44. M.J. reacts: the scene of what Helen is saying hits her hard. This is repeating the pattern of yet another The techie who pulled the bullet out of the door turns.
HELEN: Look in the crowd. He liked to hang around and watch the cops at EXT. SHELL STATION - NIGHT Closed. RUBEN at the phone booth. A note lies on the shelf, handwritten in felt-tip pen. He puts on a rubber glove, picks note up by one corner.
RUBEN: "Police: let me haunt you with these words: I'll be back." M.J. notices that there is writing on the other side of the note. She forces RUBEN'S gloved hand to turn note over.
RUBEN: Hold on a minute, Helen. By this time M.J. has seen that this part is addressed to HELEN. M.J. takes phone from RUBEN, forcing herself to sound casual.
PICTURE?: INT. FRONT DOOR OF HELEN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT The horn blares across the street, ( O.S. ). No one notices the MAN at HELEN'S door, swiftly fiddling the lock with a ring full of burglars' keys and picks.
MAN: I can explain!
RUBEN: The fuck you can! Helen! Are you okay? HELEN! Then he sees her. In shock, she stares down at the MAN.
RUBEN: Did this animal touch you? She shakes her head, turns and runs out of the room, as RUBEN catches sight of BURT.
RUBEN: Turn on a light and call in the unit. NOW! BURT rushes to okay. RUBEN FRISKS THE MAN.
MAN: No gun!
RUBEN: Bullshit's gonna get your balls stomped on! What's your name?
MAN: Chow. Conrad Chow. The improbability of this name makes RUBEN deliver an angry kick to the man's side.
MAN: Swear to God! carry a gun.
BURT: Backup's here.
RUBEN: ( to Burt ) Then you get your ass outta here, I don't wanta see you again.
CONRAD: I brought a present for the lady, there. I'm looking for her, to give her the present.
RUBEN: You break into her apartment to deliver a gift? Where is it?
CONRAD: The door was open, swear to God, I'm just looking for her when you come charging up the stairs.
RUBEN: Where is it?
CONRAD: I'm trying to tell you. It's on the lady's pillow. Ruben shoves Conrad into Backup Cop's hands.
CONRAD: Daryll Lee Cullum, he wrote that book, he wanted the lady to have it. They won't let him send it to her, so I'm getting out, he asks me to deliver it in person, he says, put it on her pillow. It has all about how he tried to kill her.
RUBEN: He told you she was loaded, any- thing you could steal you could keep, Conrad? You bought yourself a return ticket to Quentin, breaking and entering.
CONRAD: The door was already open.
RUBEN: We know. Send the book to evidence.
CONRAD: She's supposed to have it.
RUBEN: She don't want it.
HELEN: Why don't you shoot off the lock? She starts to laugh. The sound is awful. After a moment, she gets up on wobbly legs and opens the door. RUBEN takes her to the sink, sort of sits her down on it. Wets a washcloth, goes to sponge off her face. She is trembling.
HELEN: He was in my apartment!
RUBEN: I know, baby. I know. Without warning, in some sort of manic phase of a freak-out, she breaks away from him, ricochets through bedroom, down the hallway, RUBEN follows, tries to put his arms around It's okay. you're safe with me! He pulls her down into a chair with him, his arms tight around her, holding her still. He smoothes her hair, rubs her neck, pets her like a frightened and resistant cat.
RUBEN: It's okay. you're safe with me! He pulls her down into a chair with him, his arms tight around her, holding her still. He smoothes her hair, rubs her neck, pets her like a frightened and resistant cat.
RUBEN: When I was a little kid, and I'd be in a state, my father would hold me on his lap, until all the fight would go out of me. She breaks free and whacks him across his nose.
HELEN: You think you're my Daddy? There is something so perverse about this, so erotic, that RUBEN kisses her. She goes limp, kisses him back, then she's suddenly sobbing. His nose is bleeding, but she's smiling. Something between them has finally connected. Been agreed upon.
RUBEN: Helen.honey, you know I gotta go. He digs out his sneaky gun from whenever he keeps it.
RUBEN: You know how to use this?
HELEN: They taught me at the FBI. I was very good at it. It scared me. I liked it.
RUBEN: You take it, hang on to it, it'll make you feel safer. Stay put.
HELEN: What else? He goes.
SAKS: Hello. I am ( research title ) Meryhew Saks. The song is called "Murder By Numbers." The performers are a group called The Police. Adam here. working out exactly what this perpetrator is trying to telegraph in the note. This is an extremely complex case, and we have a lot of fancy theories floating around. We're not ruling out the possib- ility of three Copycat serial killers. We have Quantico working on graphology, the Washington lap is cloning DNA from the secretor. It's our feeling that the best lead we have is the two sperm samples in one of the victims. We have a team sweeping sperm banks. Now I want to say a few word to you local people. Your Commissioner asked for our assistance. The Bureau does not send us in on these cases to lord it over the local police. We couldn't catch up on what you people know if we had a year. We have nation-wide resources and hard state of the art forensic science; you have the local savvy. Together we can be unbeatable. Which one is Inspector Halloran?
SAKS: We don't see too many lady homicide detectives. You have my respect. Have you discussed the note with Dr. Hudson?
SAKS: I was just about to advise the Inspector here not to show Dr. Hudson the note.
SAKS: ( riding over her ) We know Helen. She's not exactly a credible collaborator. Especially late in the day.
SAKS: Who prescribes the brandy? M.J.'S look makes SAKS smile. QUINN is called to the phone.
SAKS: She is a writer, writing best selling books about serial killing. Giving lectures she's well-paid for. Her interests are not the interests of law enforcement.
SAKS: We've put a tap on Dr. Hudson's phone. I know you won't mention So much for any trusting relationship, right? QUINN has arrived, addresses SAKS.
QUINN: Sorry to interrupt. I need a word with my officer. He turns to M.J. Diplomatically, SAKS moves away.
QUINN: M.J., I'm going to have to borrow Ruben. The alien-smuggling thing in Chinatown is going down tomorrow night and Jack's kid got hit by a car. I gotta give Ruben to Nikko.
QUINN: Teach both of them a lesson in cooperation and self-discipline.
QUINN: Just, I need results. And I am short-handed. Who else am I gonna give him?
GIGI: Lab called. They got a result on the drug test you requested.? It takes a moment to remember what it was.
GIGI: They said it was Windex? If there was any residual doubt about what's happening, it's gone now. She starts after Quinn, sees he is in spirited dialogue with SAKS and decides to wait.
HELEN: ."I'll be back." As she looks at the back of the note. she looks up into M.J.'S face.
HELEN: They put Merry
HELEN: What I can't believe is that in an earlier life I slept with him! Christ! Any God that loved his people would give women a rewind on their life and an erase button. Just give me a minute here. The letter is addressed to me. You don't feel fear, do you? You're young. You feel like you'll live forever. How wonderful.
HELEN: They weren't going to show it to me?! The arrogance! It's my life!
HELEN: It's not chronological: Son of Sam was before Hillside. She begins to read.
HELEN: He attacks what he feels he can't have. What he feels excluded EXT. UNIVERSITY CAMPUS - DAY Lush, pastoral green. We see PETER sitting by himself. He wears a WHITE LAB COAT, like one we saw hanging in his HIS POV: of students on the green, playing Frisbee, studying together, picnicking. Women sunbathe, their straps pulled down on their shoulders, their tops rolled up to expose their midriffs.
HELEN: But the relief he feels is only temporary. '.Before your conscience bothers you much less.' But the tension always comes back. 'You can join the ranks of the illustrious.' He wants to be like them. The best. To become the best. But, he has his own desires, his own compulsions apart from theirs.' His own horrors.
HELEN: Of course he wants to do a threesome! Only Bundy did three in one day. Is Bundy next? But Bundy should be last. the grand finale. What about Kemper and Ramirez? Gacy, Dahmer, Williams? Rivkind? Who else is on his list? In what EXT. CITY STREET - DAY PETER in his car. Ahead, he see TWO GIRLS at a bus stop. We see PETER take a long bladed-knife and carefully conceal it under his right thigh. The TWO GIRLS are wearing backpacks. 'FESTIVAL OF LOVE' stickers decorate the bags. PETER pulls his nondescript sedan up to them and says something. They giggle, shake their heads. He laughs, holds up his hands to level of his shoulders in a 'Not guilty!' gesture, then makes a peace sign. The girls giggle again, but do not get in. PETER drives off.
HELEN: '.great dark hall of fame. all our greatest killers.' His greatest heroes? He wants to be famous. When they're caught and people like me write about them, we give them a kind of immortality. They get thousands of letters. Ramirez kills eight women and gets a hundred marriage proposals a month. They're like film stars.
FELIX: We keep records of any threatening or illegal correspondence, like relatives of victims who might want to send the condemned man some strychnine cookies. So it's only a partial list, but you're still looking at about forty pages.
GIGI: Hot off the fax. Mr. Rivkind's M.J. doesn't look at the Rivkind list, just crosses his name off the killer list and picks up the phone, dials, waits.
ANDY: It's almost six. And guess what? Hall likes me bathed and shaved.
HELEN: Stop acting like a silly little His eyebrows arch, but his smile stays in place.
ANDY: My life to live, darling, try to remember what it was like way, way back when you were young and sexy and alive. He gets up and walks toward the door.
HELEN: You bastard!
ANDY: But alive! THE DOOR SLAMS ( O.S. ) HELEN angrily hits the keys:
PETER KURTEN: HELEN ( V.O. ) The dirty bastard! More games!
HELEN: Let's speed up the game plan. call all the living serials to ask if they've had contact with a Peter Kurten. We could use some help on the phones.
HELEN: ( beat ) You do that one, I don't want it.
MITCHELL: Sergeant Halloran is it? I've got a list of Daryll Lee's correspondents. There is a Peter Kurten among them. Daryll Lee claims he has information about Kurten, but he'll only talk to Dr. Hudson personally. Nobody else. The creep's been studying his amendments. My guess is he doesn't have zip. Just angling for a chance to ask if her bra size is still the same. We get this shit all the time, but it's her call.
HELEN: Not a damn bit. And unconsciously lights another during following.
DARYLL LEE: Hey, Doc! How you doing? She turns on speakerphone.
HELEN: Hello, Daryll Lee.
DARYLL: You read my book which as you know, hit the stands a couple of weeks ago. You read it yet.
HELEN: What book?
DARYLL: ( indignant ) I sent it by private courier, he didn't give it to you? That son of a gun.! Helen looks at M.J., who indicates 'tell you later.'
HELEN: I'll look for it, Daryll Lee.
DARYLL: Bet you never figured I'd follow in your footsteps. It's real well- written. You should read it you're in it.
HELEN: I will. I'll call you, Daryll, and talk to you about it after I've read it. Right now I have a question. Peter Kurten.
DARYLL: Kurten! Is he bothering you? I told that son I'd send him what he wanted if he leave you alone.
HELEN: Ah ha. What did he want?
DARYLL: Something personal. Is he bothering I don't know. I'd like to know where he is.
HELEN: I don't know. I'd like to know where he is.
DARYLL: Listen, you want my advice? Steer clear. He's writing me he's gonna finish 'my unfinished symphony.' He's gonna give me $550 for some of my cum, he says he's in a position to see that I will be immortal if he has some of my spunk. I'm offended. Right away I smell freak. Writin' about him and me and you bein' joined and he's gonna finish my symphony? I didn't care for his drift. I sent some liquid soap in a sandwich baggie with a message from Jesus to mend his ways. You hear I found Jesus? And what's funny is, now I don't mind bein' inside. If I was out, even Born Again, I'd probably get restless again. It's maybe better I stay here, what do you think?
HELEN: I think whatever is best for you, Daryll. And maybe you're right, that's the place.
DARYLL: You come and visit.
HELEN: Where did you send the message to Peter Kurten?
DARYLL: Damn! I gave that to Conrad, too! That guy! I told Conrad deliver to Kurten and keep the 500 bucks in return for getting my book to you. At this mention of Conrad, M.J. leaps to another phone.
HELEN: How was Conrad supposed to find Conrad has the phone number. Conrad, where is he?
DARYLL: Conrad has the phone number. Conrad, where is he?
HELEN: ( from M.J.'s pantomime ) In jail.
DARYLL: That Klutz. They send him back here, I'll kick his ass good.
DARYLL LEE: Helen, how is life, you okay? Come see me, talk to me. I think about you, worry about you all the time. I am so glad Jesus didn't let me kill you. You know you're blessed by Jesus. That's why you need to come talk to me, because Jesus kept you alive for a reason, and I was his sacred instrument. In the moment Satan was in my heart raising my hand to kill you, Jesus took my hand to spare you. I am both death and life to you. Helen hangs up. M.J. has already left.
RUBEN: ( enough already! ) Wait a minute, wait a goddamn He manhandles the KID INTO DOCILITY WHILE.
RUBEN: The woman was in shock. She was totally out on ranks. I stayed because I didn't want her to wake up alone in a place where she'd just been under attack. Stop that, you son of a bitch! The place wasn't secure. I was doing my goddamn job! And, for the second time, I slept in her living Don't try to lie, Ruben. You don't have the face for it. I need you to help interrogate the burglar in Hudson's place.
RUBEN: Talk to Nikko.!
NIKKO: You speak English? You need an interpreter? QUINN, walking past the ILLEGALS, speaks to GIGI.
QUINN: I didn't want the Illigals, I wanted just the bastards dumping them in the harbor. What's keeping those bums at Immigration? Nightmare in M.J. STANDS OVER NIKKO I gotta have Ruben, and a.
NIKKO: Outta your mind? Look at this.
QUINN: ( amazed ) You got a suspect.
QUINN: How'd you get in on the deal?
QUINN: You have no authority to make a deal like that. That' s for the
QUINN: Saks. If he knew you did that! They're all asking me, 'what is she doing,' as it is.
QUINN: We get through this shit, let 'em all go. NIKKO has stood and moved the handcuffed THUG toward the door to jail cells. M.J. checks her time, ( WALL CLOCKS HELP
NIKKO: We get through this shit, let 'em all go. NIKKO has stood and moved the handcuffed THUG toward the door to jail cells. M.J. checks her time, ( WALL CLOCKS HELP
RUBEN: I gotta get something to eat, I haven't eaten all day. M.J. goes. RUBEN can't find a desk to work at, and commandeers Nikko's. He slams the KID into NIKKO'S chair and cuffs him. KID starts to rattle his chairs, spew Chinese epithets, then bends over the desk and, with his teeth picks up some paper, tries to shake it to shreds. RUBEN yanks the papers out of the KID'S mouth, pulls the KID'S chair from the side to the front of the desk, shoves the KID into place facing away from the desk, so that he can't do any more damage. Then RUBEN can't figure out where he can work. At the next desk, where he has been working, MAC rises.
MAC: Here. I'm finished.
RUBEN: ( to Kid ) I'm going to the coffee machine. Hold the fort. He moves off, the KID'S eyes move calculatingly around the room. He twists against the cuffs, trying anything to get free, and discovers he can pull out the desk drawer. CLOSE UP: The KID'S FREE HAND rifling through the drawer behind his back, finding the gun. PULL BACK to show the KID. He is as Ruben positioned him, his back pressed against the desk.
CONRAD: Who are you?
CONRAD: ( cagey ) I was? How you spell that?
CONRAD: ( interrupting ) I never hurt nobody.
CONRAD: ( interrupting ) I never carried a gun! She slaps him hard! He is shocked.
CONRAD: You get me out first.
CONRAD: Tell me what you want me to say. You were going to make a delivery to Peter Kurten for Daryll Lee Cullum. I want Kurten's phone I don't have it. M.J. starts to open the door.
CONRAD: I don't have it. M.J. starts to open the door.
CONRAD: Wait. wait. I already called him, I threw it away.
CONRAD: No, that's still in my jacket I was wearing. We were supposed to meet on the docks, that number 47 wharf, 10 o'clock Friday. He's gonna hand me 500 bucks.
CONRAD: What day is this? In jail you lose track. This week. Friday. M.J. is already on her way.
CONRAD: Don't forget me, please. I told you what you wanted don't forget EXT. WATERFRONT - NIGHT DESERTED. A LONG SHADOW OF A MAN STRETCHES OUT ACROSS THE DOCK. IT IS PETER, WALKING LEISURELY FROM THE WATERFRONT DRIVE TOWARD THE HUGE WATERHOUSE AT THE END OF THE DOCK. HE STEPS INTO THE DEEP SHADOWS AND SEEMS TO VANISH. CLOSE: PETER. HE CHECKS HIS WATCH AND TURNS TO WATCH THE DOCK AND THE SHORE. HE CAN SEE AND NOT BE SEEN. HE IS ENTIRELY ALONE NOW. INT. SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT RUBEN takes coffee and doughnuts out of a box, then leans over the KID who seems to have calmed down. He uncuffs him from the chair.
RUBEN: Behave. You refuse my hospitality, I'm putting you to bed. He pushes the coffee toward the Kid, who WHIPS NIKKO'S GUN OUT FROM UNDER THE DESK, where it was hidden, and lays it up under Ruben's ear. KID moves behind RUBEN and puts a skinny arm around RUBEN'S neck, pulling him upright. RUBEN still clutching the doughnut box. It takes a moment for the others to SEE. Then the room is absolutely motionless.
NIKKO: Take it easy, Kid. Nobody's gonna do anything. Just let the gun down, so it don't go off.
KID: ( screams ) Nobody comes through the door. Behind the KID, as he backs through the door, across the corridor we LOOK STRAIGHT DOWN A CORRIDOR TO WHERE M.J. IS COMING ALMOST AT A RUN SHE SEES what is happening. The KID doesn't see her, yet, as he is backing away from the others. M.J. DRAWS HER GUN AND STANDS IN FIRING POSITION.
KID: I'm a juvenile! I'm a juvenile!
NIKKO: Christ. I didn't lock the fucking drawer! You spend twenty years thinking some perp's gonna whack you. you'll crash your car. but what happens is, you fuck You can't imagine how many times I saw you two. your head together, I wish him dead. Every time. Want to hear something weird? I feel like I'd give my life to bring him back.
NIKKO: Who gives a fuck? In all the years I never seen you cry. You loved him. M.J. looks away.
QUINN: Nikko. My office? M.J., I wanna see you later. Nikko stands, and he and Quinn exit. M.J. SITS STARING INTO
QUINN: ( nothing her look ) He's on temp leave with pay. I talked the Commissioner out of no M.J. pulls her badge out and puts it down in front of Quinn.
QUINN: So I'm maybe gonna lose three good cops? You fucked up on this occasion, but don't be so hard on yourself. There's something I want you to think about. The book says if you use your gun, use it to kill, that's what it's meant to do. You tried to pick this punk off with fancy shooting, to keep him alive. To what end? You're not willing to kill, you can't be a cop. Go get drunk. I am.
HELEN: Peter Kurten!
HELEN: You were right! He knew me! He went to my lectures. He recorded them! Listen to this. She is too full of her own shock to wonder why M.J. is here at this hour and to notice the state M.J. is in. she has turned back to the answering machine and hits the play button, M.J. standing beside her. She also has the text of the lecture on her computer screen:
ANSWERING MACHINE: .Action. Release from passivity. Albert DeSalvo, Bianchi and Buono, Berkowitz, Dahmer. Dahmer killed his first victim because the boy just wanted to go home. Bundy said he wanted to master life. And AND THE MUSIC FROM THE NIGHTCLUB BLARING IN THE B.G. Helen has turned and now sees M.J.'s condition. SHE STOPS
HELEN: What happened to you?!
HELEN: He felt sorry for me. It was so nice to flirt. He was a darling A man? I thought he was a boy. This last Christmas was the happiest Christmas I had in the last ten years. you know why? It was the first Christmas in six years I was not in love. Son of a bitch married men! Who cares about marriage, the bed just gets crowded and noisy?!
HELEN: You're exhausted. Let me get you a Where's the john? Let me clean up this mess, and get back to work. Helen has stepped to her brandy decanter; M.J., too dejected to move, sits, staring now at the only thing to stare at: the computer screen.
HELEN: The University computer is down for maintenance, but I've been going through my own notes.
HELEN: Yes. Dahmer! And after that.
HELEN: Maybe you should.
HELEN: ( she's going through Out. Where does he go? Nowhere. What does he do? Nothing.
HELEN: I am not going to talk about it. How do you know it was Andy if the head was gone? Where is the head? Are you looking for it? Oh, God, why him? Because of me. I can't talk about it. I write about things like this, stuff it all in books and bury it in libraries. This is the first person close to me who's ever died. And it's because of me. This monster killed him because I loved him.
HELEN: W-We had a fight. I called him. called him a name.
HELEN: ( beat ) Right. Well. He's going to do Bundy. Bundy faked injuries, wore a plaster cast, or walked on crutches, and asked college girls for help carrying his books, pushing his car. M.J. starts for the door. Helen has turned to her computer and types. meanwhile we are HEARING.
DETECTIVE: How far out?
DETECTIVE 2: They were combing Fertility You want to get onto the DMV, we want records on all gold or yellow colored VW bugs, any year. I want an in-person check on every registered owner. If it's rental check rental first get names and location of who is driving one now. Next station. QUINN has appeared and is listening.
QUINN: What about auto body and paint shops; any recent VW bug repainted to gold or yellow? M.J. is mildly surprised at help from this source.
SAKS: What about auto body and paint shops; any recent VW bug repainted to gold or yellow? M.J. is mildly surprised at help from this source.
HELEN: Any student name registered in Crime-Psych 137 matched to titles of term papers with any mention of 'Peter Kurten.' What she types on SCREEN is the text for a Boolean search for such items ( research needed ). She waits for a second.
HELEN: Peter Foley. Good God. You poor sad little bore. I failed you, is this what.? SOUND: HER FRONT DOOR OPENS. She starts, turns. Feet moving toward her, but quietly, cautiously. As the footsteps turn into the hall. She stands, reaching for anything to defend herself with: a paperknife. She moves to the door, raising the knife. footsteps closer. A man turns into the office, and she launches herself, only stopping the stab of the knife at the last split second. ANDY. She SCREAMS!
ANDY: Stop screaming! She screams again. Then smothers him with kisses and For God's sake, stop my head! I have the Iraqi mother of all hang- overs. Very quiet in the hospital zone, please. She clings to him.
ANDY: For God's sake, stop my head! I have the Iraqi mother of all hang- overs. Very quiet in the hospital zone, please. She clings to him.
HELEN: Where have you to your wallet?
ANDY: Hal has it.
ANDY: .then he gave me a popper and I started to feel really wild. all over the dance floor. Then suddenly I was just s o stoned. And sick? I had to race for the john. horribly sick. Over and over and over. I was in there a very long time. And when I came out they were gone. So was my jacket which I'd tossed to Hal when I was dancing. Hal was my. Could I have a glass of water? An FBI man intrudes. with a printout of a driver's license. He shows to Andy.
FBI: Mister Saks. We gotta Peter Foley, medical technician in a fertility clinic in Oakland. We got a home address in Daly City.
ANDY: ( looking at license ) That's him.
SAKS: Got him!
QUINN: I called our SWAT Commander. He's ours now. You come watch our boys in action. And walks away.
SAKS: ( under his breath ) Well, thank you, too.
SWAT COMM: ( on bullhorn ) Peter Foley, we are the police. Will you please come to your front door, and come out with your hands above your head.( etc. )
SUSAN: I am here with Lieutenant Quinn of the Homicide Division and ( title ) Saks of the FBI. Can you tell us what happened here, tonight? During the following we move to PETER'S HOUSE where Quinn and Saks are being interviewed.
QUINN: Susan, the San Francisco Police Department, assisted by the FBI, developed evidence that the serial killer, referred to as the Copycat killer was an individual who resided at this address. Upon being asked to step out of the house to be interviewed, the suspect set fire to the house possibly to destroy evidence of his wife's murder. We found her dead of gunshot wounds in an upstairs bedroom. He himself died in the No, we'll wait until we've located any relatives who should be notified. Witnesses saw the individual burn to death, they were unable to reach him in time to save him. We're glad, as the entire city must be glad, this reign of terror is ended. No, no more at this time. Thank you.
NIKKO: Don't ever forget how good you are. He is standing behind her and leans over to almost touch her hair with his lips.
NIKKO: I love you. He goes. M.J. twists in misery and fury. Her phone is ringing on another line; she punches it.
NJ: I don't believe it.
HELEN: I don't believe it.
HELEN: They never kill themselves. How do you know it was him. You never met him. You never even saw a Helen let go. You've got to let He hasn't done Bundy. He's done every one of the others, hasn't he? If there are three dead Chi Omega college girls tomorrow, how will you feel? Go there. See if there could be any way for him to escape.
HELEN: He hasn't done Bundy. He's done every one of the others, hasn't he? If there are three dead Chi Omega college girls tomorrow, how will you feel? Go there. See if there could be any way for him to escape.
HELEN: If there's a one percent possibil- ity, can you live with yourself when he kills again?
RADIO NEWS: .You're on the air, who's this.Ron, that's not my right name. that's okay, Ron. What are you afraid of?. I don't want anybody to know my name, because I'm a friend of Peter Foley? I know him from the gay community? He was cruising the night. M.J. switches stations, channel surfing. bits of music, Rush Limbaugh, back to Ron droning on.
RADIO NEWS: Police and their attitude? That this is just some weird queer event, just because they couldn't stop this guy until he did himself, if you even believe that. M.J. turns off the radio. when light turns green, instead of moving ahead, she just sits for a moment. Then, furious with HELEN, with everything, she swears and wheels the car into a tight illegal u-turn.
GIRL: Goddamn it! This is brand new! Where're you going? As M.J. continues to move the Girl grabs her.
GIRL: No, you don't spill all over somebody and just walk away, you damn well pay the cleaning bill.
GIRL: M.J. holds up the badge.
STUDENT: Swallow the joint! It's Barney Phyfe in drag!
HELEN: ( beat ) Who was the man in the basement?
PETER: You like that action? Didn't that cop on TV look solemn? The guy in the basement doesn't matter, anyway, just another lonely heart.
HELEN: Where are you, Peter?
PETER: Bundy next, so you sent your Helen gasps with the implications of that.
PETER: What was that? What am I hearing? The sound of an epiphany, a sudden blinding insight?
HELEN: It's Daryll Lee Cullum, isn't it?
PETER: Mm-hmm. I can't get to you. You have to come to me.
HELEN: You know I can't do that.
PETER: Oh, I think you will. Peter rips duct tape off M.J.'s mouth.
HELEN: For God's sake Peter, leave her out of it. You don't want her, you want me.
PETER: I need her; she's a cop. I have to kill a cop, and then.
HELEN: You've been perfect. Don't spoil the symmetry you have to have a male cop.
PETER: I don't care she's a cop. That's the important thing. Cop-ness, not sex-ness. It won't be perfect, but it'll be good.
PETER: I'm tired. I want it to end tonight, don't you?
HELEN: Yes. I do. I want it to end now. Let her go. I'll come just let her go. She's not important.
PETER: You know where.
HELEN: Where it began McCluskey He hangs up.
COMPUTER VOICE: Time Zero-hundred and twenty two minutes and sixteen seconds June twelve 1994 Helen Hudson 415 320 1854 Court order Alpha Bravo
BATHROOM DRAWER: It is pulled open: metallic sounds of bullets rolling on the wooden drawer: her hand bats away the usual bathroom drawer garbage and pull Ruben's gun out; HER TREMBLING FINGERS
HELEN: It's all over, Fred. They got the guy. You go home to your own bed I got to have that from my superior. One guy fired off this job already.
FRED: I got to have that from my superior. One guy fired off this job already.
HELEN: Call in. Use my phone. They'll tell you it's all over.
SAKS: Ma'am, please get out of your Merry, how. oh, Christ, of course, you had my phone tapped.
HELEN: Merry, how. oh, Christ, of course, you had my phone tapped.
SAKS: Just get out of your vehicle.
HELEN: He's got Sergeant Halloran in there. He'll kill her the minute he sees or hears your people.
SAKS: You've been very useful, Doctor, we appreciate all you've done, and now the professional will take over.
HELEN: He wants me, he doesn't care about her. Let me.
SWAT: Oh, man?! Let us in there.
SAKS: Go. Go. Go! Men begin moving cautiously out of the trees and shadows toward the Auditorium.
PETER: You cheated! You said you'd come die with me.
PETER: Listen to them! We'll be on all three channels.
HELEN: Kill me, Peter, do it, now.
PETER: No. Not yet.
HELEN: Do it. If that's what all this carnage is about, then do it. Have enough guts to do it.
PETER: Don't talk to me about courage. I know death, what it's like to kill. You're not a killer you watched Daryll Lee kill that cop and you didn't make a peep, because you were paralyzed with fear. You chocked. I know something else about Peter is jerking about with amphetamine energy; he pops a pill into his mouth and swallows.
PETER: You want one? No? There was something in you that was fascinated, that wanted to see what it was like for a man to die. Everybody feels it. Like every person who slows to see a bad accident, or runs to see a fire. That's true. I see it in you. you're the same as me.
PETER: Oh, no.
PETER: We'll keep talking. Until they get here. Then.
HELEN: I have no life anymore. I ruined your life, make me pay for it.
PETER: Why did you do that? Didn't you have any idea how hard it was for me, to get that far? I worshipped you. You inspired me. I thought you could understand me the way you understood the others. I knew that about you the ones you admired were the great murderers; they fascinated you.
HELEN: That's not who I admire I admire people who are good at what they do, great artists, writers, I don't have the talent for any of those things. All I have a talent for is death. And I am one of a kind. What do you think of your student now? I have made you famous, I am your creation and your BEHIND HIM A SHADOWY FIGURE DARTS FROM HIDING SPOT TO A VANTAGE POINT: WE CAN'T MAKE OUT THE FIGURE. HELEN SEES BUT PETER DOES NOT. If you let me, I can make you more famous than any of them.
PETER: I don't have the talent for any of those things. All I have a talent for is death. And I am one of a kind. What do you think of your student now? I have made you famous, I am your creation and your BEHIND HIM A SHADOWY FIGURE DARTS FROM HIDING SPOT TO A VANTAGE POINT: WE CAN'T MAKE OUT THE FIGURE. HELEN SEES BUT PETER DOES NOT. If you let me, I can make you more famous than any of them.
HELEN: If you let me, I can make you more famous than any of them.
PETER: Oh, please. I know what's coming, now. "Let me help you."
HELEN: Do anything you want to me. I give myself to you. Only put the knife down. Isn't this what you always wanted? I know it's what we all want, to love and to loved. I could love you. You could work together in some safe place, learn to really understand you, help you, give you some peace of mind, some Back in the driver's seat again, Doctor? That old dream study us to see what makes us sick. So you can find a cure they'd name it after you? Death is the only cure for people like me. He leans toward her with the knife. This might be the moment. His gun lies on the floor beside him.
PETER: Back in the driver's seat again, Doctor? That old dream study us to see what makes us sick. So you can find a cure they'd name it after you? Death is the only cure for people like me. He leans toward her with the knife. This might be the moment. His gun lies on the floor beside him.
HELEN: Do it. For God's sake,
PETER: ( surprised, like a You hurt me!
SWAT TEAM: LIKE A FIRING SQUAD THE TEAM FIRES. PETER'S BODY FLIES THROUGH THE AIR FROM THE IMPACT AND SLIDES SPRAWLING ACROSS THE STAGE TO A STOP. INT. AUDITORIUM - LATER M.J. SITS AS PARAMEDIC GENTLY PULL OFF HER SHIRT AND THE BULLET PROOF VEST THAT SAVED HER LIFE.
PARAMEDIC: That looks like just a bad bruise. I'll tape it up if you want to.
QUINN: I'll take it, kid. You take two weeks paid leave. Don't waste a second thinking about that shitbag. Then come back. You're a cop, M.J. He nods to Helen. Get the civilians outta here.
QUINN: No, she can come in tomorrow. gonna want to know a lot of B.G. the cops have pulled PETER'S BODY BY THE FEET, LETTING HIM BUMPITY BUMPITY BUMPITY DOWN THE STEPS from the stage and lifted him onto a gurney. The body is wheeled past them, as.
HELEN: The only one who could tell you what you really need to know is Yeah, it's a thought. Of no importance to him, he turns away.
QUINN: Yeah, it's a thought. Of no importance to him, he turns away.
HELEN: Why can't I drive home? I will. You. Look at you. You need a ride home. And you don't even know it.
SUSAN: Hey! Halloran! What's the story On the two women getting in the car.
HELEN: If she has to ask, she's never gonna know.
THE END: Writers : Frank Pierson Ann Biderman Jay Presson Allen
