SHOOTING DRAFT: EXT. AIRFIELD DAY We are moving through a small airfield full of parked light planes. There are no people around. We move through the cluster of planes toward a hangar on the edge of the field.
AD: I'm looking for James. Has anybody seen James Ballard? You know who I mean? The producer of this epic. I think I saw him in the camera
GRIP: I think I saw him in the camera
AD: ( off screen ) James? James, are you in there? Could we please get your stamp of approval on our little tracking shot?
JAMES: Of course. Be there in a minute.
CAMERA GIRL: It'll take more than a minute.
JAMES: Where were you?
CATHERINE: In the private aircraft hangar. Anybody could have walked in.
JAMES: Did you come?
CATHERINE: No. What about your camera girl? Did she come?
JAMES: We were interrupted. I had to go back to the set.
CATHERINE: Poor darling. What can I do about Karen? How can I arrange to have her seduce me? She desperately needs a conquest.
JAMES: I've been thinking about that, about you and Karen.
CATHERINE: There, that's better.
JAMES: Thank you.
CATHERINE: Not a lot of action here.
JAMES: They consider this to be the airport hospital. This ward is reserved for air-crash victims. The beds are kept If I groundloop during my flying lesson on Saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
CATHERINE: If I groundloop during my flying lesson on Saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
JAMES: I'll listen for you buzzing over.
JAMES: ( referring to the lighter ) Is that a gift from Wendel? It has an aeronautical feel to it.
CATHERINE: Yes. From Wendel. To celebrate the licence approval for our air-charter firm. I forgot to tell you.
JAMES: That's going well, then.
CATHERINE: Well, yes. You're getting out of bed tomorrow. They want you to walk.
CATHERINE: The other man, the dead man, his wife is a doctor Dr Helen Remington. She's here, somewhere. As a patient, of course. Maybe you'll find her in the hallways tomorrow on your walk.
JAMES: And her husband? What was he?
CATHERINE: He was a chemical engineer with a food company.
STUDENT NURSE: No smoking, please.
STUDENT NURSE: ( to Catherine ) Are you this gentleman's wife? Mrs You can stay for this, then.
CATHERINE: STUDENT NURSE
STUDENT NURSE: You can stay for this, then.
CATHERINE: Aida telephoned to say how sorry she was, but could you look at the storyboards again, she's made a number of changes.
JAMES: Where's the car?
CATHERINE: Outside in the visitors' car-park.
JAMES: What!? They brought the car here?
CATHERINE: My car, not yours. Yours is a complete wreck. The police dragged it to the pound behind the station.
JAMES: Have you seen it?
CATHERINE: The sergeant asked me to identify it. He didn't believe you'd gotten out alive.
JAMES: It's about time.
CATHERINE: It is?
JAMES: After being bombarded endlessly by road-safety propaganda, it's almost a relief to have found myself in an actual accident.
VAUGHAN: James Ballard?
JAMES: Crash victim?
VAUGHAN: Crash victim?
JAMES: Vaughan shuffles his photos again. James manages to make out the shapes of a few crushed and distorted vehicles caught in lurid, flash-lit news style. Vaughan flips through them distractedly, then with an unexpected, almost flirtatious flourish slides them back into his briefcase and tucks it under his arm.
VAUGHAN: We'll deal with these later.
JAMES: Dr. Remington.?
CATHERINE: Both front wheels and the engine were driven back into the driver's section, bowing the floor. Blood still marked the hood, streamers of black lace running toward the windshield-wiper gutters.
CATHERINE: Minute flecks were spattered across the seat and steering wheel. The instrument panel was buckled inwards, cracking the clock and the speedometer dials. The cabin was deformed, and there was dust and glass and plastic flakes everywhere inside. The carpeting was damp and stank of blood and other body and machine fluids.
JAMES: You should have gone to the funeral.
CATHERINE: I wish I had. They bury the dead so quickly they should leave them lying around for months.
JAMES: What about his wife? The woman doctor? Have you visited her yet?
CATHERINE: No, I couldn't. I feel too close to
CATHERINE: Renata tells me you're going to rent a car.
JAMES: I can't sit on this balcony forever. I'm beginning to feel like a potted How can you drive? James. your legs. You can barely walk.
CATHERINE: How can you drive? James. your legs. You can barely walk.
JAMES: Is the traffic heavier now? There seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident.
CATHERINE: I've never really noticed. Is Renata going with you?
JAMES: I thought she might come along. Handling a car again might be more tiring than I imagine.
CATHERINE: I'm amazed that she'll let you drive You're not envious?
JAMES: You're not envious?
CATHERINE: Maybe I am a little. James, I've got to leave for the office. Are you going to be all right?
RENATA: Are we allowed to park here?
JAMES: I'm sure the police would make an exception in your case.
RENATA: I'm sure the police would make an exception in your case.
JAMES: There's still a patch of blood there on the road. Did you see it?
RENATA: I saw the blood. It looks like motor You were the last one I saw just before the accident. Do you remember? We made love.
JAMES: You were the last one I saw just before the accident. Do you remember? We made love.
RENATA: Are you still involving me in your
RENATA: Who is that man? Is he a private
RENATA: Can you drive?
JAMES: I can drive. I can't believe you've done this.
CATHERINE: I can't believe you've done this.
KAREN: This is the exact same car as your old one, isn't it?
CATHERINE: Yes, it is. Are you planning to have another car I'm not thinking about the crash at
JAMES: I'm not thinking about the crash at
HELEN: After this sort of thing, how do people manage to look at a car, let alone drive one? I'm trying to find Charles's car.
JAMES: It's not here. Maybe the police are still holding it. Their forensic They said it was here. They told me this morning.
HELEN: They said it was here. They told me this morning.
HELEN: This is your car?
JAMES: You'll tear your gloves.
JAMES: I don't think we should have come here. I'm surprised the police don't make it more difficult.
HELEN: Were you badly hurt? I think we saw each other at the hospital. I don't want the car. In fact, I was appalled to find that I have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped.
JAMES: Can I give you a lift? I somehow find myself driving again.
JAMES: You haven't told me where we're going.
HELEN: Haven't I? To the airport, if you
JAMES: The airport? Why? Are you leaving?
HELEN: Not yet though not soon enough for some people, I've already found. A death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy.
JAMES: I take it you're not wearing white to reassure them.
HELEN: I'll wear a bloody kimono if I want So why the airport?
JAMES: So why the airport?
HELEN: I work in the immigration department
HELEN: Do you want a cigarette? I started to smoke at the hospital. It's rather stupid of me.
JAMES: ( suddenly very agitated ) Look at all this traffic. I'm not sure I can deal with it.
HELEN: It's much worse now. You noticed that, did you? The day I left the hospital I had the extraordinary feeling that all these cars were gathering for some special reason I didn't understand. There seemed to be ten times as much traffic.
JAMES: Are we imagining it?
HELEN: You've bought yourself exactly the same car again. It's the same shape and colour.
HELEN: Turn up here into the car-park. It won't be busy this time of day.
HELEN: I've found that I enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. I like to look at it. Yesterday I hired a taxi-driver to drive me around for an hour. 'Anywhere,' I said. We sat in a massive traffic jam under an off- ramp. I don't think we moved more than fifty yards. I'm thinking of taking up a new job with the Road Research Laboratory. They need a medical officer. The salary is larger something I've got to think about now. There's a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, I'm beginning to feel. Well, it's a new approach for me, in any case.
JAMES: The Road Research Laboratory? Where they simulate car crashes?
HELEN: Isn't that rather too close.?
JAMES: Isn't that rather too close.?
HELEN: That's the point. Besides, I know I can give something now that I wasn't remotely aware of before. It's not a matter of duty so much as of
RENATA: I almost forgot to give you this. Probably because I know you're going to like it.
JAMES: What is it?
RENATA: A complimentary ticket for a special stunt-driving exhibition. Definitely not part of the big auto show. There's a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discreet about the Really? What kind of exhibition is I suspect it involves re-enactments of famous car crashes. You know, Jayne Mansfield, James Dean, Albert You're kidding.
JAMES: Really? What kind of exhibition is I suspect it involves re-enactments of famous car crashes. You know, Jayne Mansfield, James Dean, Albert You're kidding.
RENATA: I suspect it involves re-enactments of famous car crashes. You know, Jayne Mansfield, James Dean, Albert You're kidding.
JAMES: You're kidding.
RENATA: Serious. But you'll have to take your new friend, the female crash- test dummy. She dropped it off for You're not jealous, are you? You have to understand. Helen and I had this strange, intense. experience together.
JAMES: You're not jealous, are you? You have to understand. Helen and I had this strange, intense. experience together.
RENATA: We've had a few of those ourselves, haven't we?
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) 'Don't worry, that guy's gotta see us!' These were the confident last words of the brilliant young Hollywood star James Dean as he piloted his Porsche 550 Spyder race car toward a date with death on a lonely stretch of California two-lane blacktop, Route 466. 'Don't worry, that guy's gotta see us.' The year, 1955; the day, September thirtieth; the time:
JAMES: It's strange I thought all this would be far more popular.
HELEN: The real thing is available free of charge. Besides, it's not quite legal. They can't advertise.
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) The first star of our show is 'Little Bastard', James Dean's racing Porsche. He named it after himself, and had his racing number, 130, painted on Who is that? The announcer. Do I know him?
JAMES: Who is that? The announcer. Do I know him?
HELEN: That's Vaughan. He talked to you at the hospital.
JAMES: Oh, yes. I thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. He wanted every conceivable detail about our crash.
HELEN: When I first met Vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. I don't know what he is now.
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) The second star is stuntman and former race driver Colin Seagrave, who will drive our replica of James Dean's
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) I myself shall play the role of James Dean's racing mechanic, Rolf Wütherich, sent over from the Porsche factory in Zuffenhausen, Germany. This mechanic was himself fated to die in a car crash in Germany twenty- six years later. And the third and in some ways most important party, the college student Donald Turnupseed, played by movie stuntman Brett Trask.
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) Turnupseed was on his way back to his home in Fresno for the weekend. James Dean was on his way to an automobile race in Salinas, a dusty town in northern California. The two would only meet for one moment, but it was a moment that would create a Hollywood legend.
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) You'll notice that we are not wearing helmets or safety padding of any kind, and our cars are not equipped with roll cages or seat-belts. We depend solely on the skill of our drivers for our safety, so that we can bring you the ultimate in authenticity. All right, here we go. The fatal crash of James Dean!
JAMES: Is that part of the act or are they really hurt?
HELEN: I don't know. You can never be sure with Vaughan. This is his show.
VAUGHAN: ( over speakers ) Rolf Wütherich was thrown from the Porsche and spent a year in the hospital recovering from his injuries. Donald Turnupseed was found wandering around in a daze, basically unhurt. James Dean died of a broken neck and became immortal.
COLIN: Hold me. I'm dizzy. I can't stand
HELEN: I know that man, Seagrave, the stunt driver. I think he's genuinely hurt.
POLICE: ( over loudspeaker ) This is an illegal and unauthorized automotive demonstration which is in contravention of the Highway Traffic Act. You are all liable to fines and possible arrest and confinement. Disperse at once! Disperse at once!
HELEN: ( to Vaughan ) What's the matter with Seagrave?
VAUGHAN: Hit his head, I think. His balance is off.
JAMES: Why are the police taking this all so seriously?
VAUGHAN: It's not the police. It's the Department of Transport. Internal politics. It's a joke. They have no idea who we really are.
VAUGHAN: That was glib, wasn't it? 'James Dean died of a broken neck and became immortal.' But I couldn't resist.
VERA: Oh, God. What happened? Here, lie
HELEN: They did the James Dean crash. It seemed to go perfectly. But he started to feel nauseous on the way back. I'm sure it's concussion.
VERA: Ah, well. We're familiar enough with that, then, aren't we?
VAUGHAN: I'd really like to work out the details of the Jayne Mansfield crash with you. We could do the decapitation her head embedded in the windshield and the little dead dog thing as well. You know, the Chihuahuas in the back seat. I've got it figured
COLIN: You know I'll be ready, Vaughan. But I'll want to wear really big tits out to here so the crowd can see them get cut up and crushed on the
VAUGHAN: Don't leave yet, Ballard. I want you to help me.
JAMES: Do you live here? With Seagrave?
VAUGHAN: ( laughs ) I live in my car. This is my workshop.
VAUGHAN: And this is the new project, Ballard.
JAMES: What kind of help can I possibly be to you? You seem to be everywhere at once as it is. Thought you might be missing these. So here you are at the nerve centre. Vaughan makes everything look like a crime, doesn't he?
GABRIELLE: Thought you might be missing these. So here you are at the nerve centre. Vaughan makes everything look like a crime, doesn't he?
JAMES: What exactly is your project, Vaughan? A book of crashes? A medical study? A sensational documentary? Global It's something we're all intimately involved in: the reshaping of the human body by modern technology.
VAUGHAN: It's something we're all intimately involved in: the reshaping of the human body by modern technology.
JAMES: Vaughan, what the hell are you doing? Are you trying to create your own Famous Crash?
VAUGHAN: It excited her, Ballard. Your wife, Catherine. She enjoyed it. Ask her.
CATHERINE: He must have fucked a lot of women in that huge car of his. It's like a bed on wheels. It must smell of It does.
JAMES: It does.
CATHERINE: Do you find him attractive?
JAMES: He's very pale. Covered with scars.
CATHERINE: Would you like to fuck him, though? In that car?
JAMES: No. But when he's in that car.
CATHERINE: Have you seen his penis?
JAMES: I think it's badly scarred too. From a motorcycle accident.
CATHERINE: Is he circumcised? Can you imagine what his anus is like? Describe it to me. Would you like to sodomize him? Would you like to put your penis right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? Tell me, describe it to me. Tell me what you would do. How would you kiss him in that car? Describe how you'd reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. Would you kiss it or suck it right away? Which hand would you hold it in? Have you ever sucked a penis? Do you know what semen tastes like? Have you ever tasted semen? Some semen is saltier than others. Vaughan's semen must be very salty.
HELEN: Have you come?
JAMES: Please finish your story.
HELEN: The junior pathologist at Ashford Hospital. Then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage.
JAMES: And you had sex with all of these men in cars? Only in cars?
HELEN: Yes. I didn't plan it that way.
JAMES: And did you fantasize that Vaughan was photographing all these sex acts? As though they were traffic accidents?
HELEN: ( laughs ) They felt like traffic accidents.
VAUGHAN: Get all the paper you can, Ballard. Some of the stuff they're giving away is terrific: 'Mechanisms of Occupant Ejection', 'Tolerances of the Human Face in Crash Impacts'.
HELEN: We can have a look at it again on the monitors. They're showing it in slow motion.
VAUGHAN: I've always wanted to drive a crashed You could get your wish at any moment.
JAMES: You could get your wish at any moment.
VAUGHAN: No, I mean a crash with a history. Camus's Facel Vega, or Nathaniel West's station wagon, Grace Kelly's Rover 3500. Fix it just enough to get it rolling. Don't clean it, don't touch anything else.
JAMES: Is that why you drive this car? I take it that you see Kennedy's assassination as a special kind of car crash?
VAUGHAN: The case could be made.
VAUGHAN: Take a look at this and tell me what you think.
JAMES: It's very. satisfying. I'm not sure I understand why.
VAUGHAN: It's the future, Ballard, and you're already part of it. For the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. For example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. To fully understand that, and to live that. that is my What about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? I thought that was your project.
JAMES: What about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? I thought that was your project.
VAUGHAN: A crude sci-fi concept that floats on the surface and doesn't threaten anybody. I use it to test the resilience of my potential partners in psychopathology.
VAUGHAN: You drive.
VAUGHAN: Let's get rid of that. I don't want you blowing it up my urethra.
RENATA: Your friend's still out there.
RENATA: What does he want from you?
JAMES: Hard to say.
RENATA: I'm going to leave now. Do you want a lift?
JAMES: No, thanks. I'll go with Vaughan.
CATHERINE: They're questioning Vaughan about an accident near the airport. Some pedestrian. they think he was run over intentionally.
JAMES: Vaughan isn't interested in You'd better drive him. He's a bit shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where is yours?
CATHERINE: You'd better drive him. He's a bit shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where is yours?
JAMES: At home. I couldn't face all this I'd better come with you, then. Are you sure you can drive?
CATHERINE: I'd better come with you, then. Are you sure you can drive?
VAUGHAN: It's Seagrave. He was worried that we would never do Jayne Mansfield's crash, now that the police were cracking down. So he did it himself.
VAUGHAN: ( shakes his head ) The dog God, the dog is brilliant, perfect. I wonder where he got it?
VAUGHAN: Come with me, James. I have to document it.
JAMES: We must have driven through a pool of blood. If the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed.
VAUGHAN: You're right, Ballard. There's an all-night car-wash in the airport service area.
SALESMAN: Is there something here that interests The white sports model. Could you help me into it, please? I'd like to see if I can fit into a car designed for a normal body.
GABRIELLE: The white sports model. Could you help me into it, please? I'd like to see if I can fit into a car designed for a normal body.
GABRIELLE: Don't. Not there.
GABRIELLE: Do it there. And then after that, do it here.
AD: Somebody named Vaughan. Do you want
JAMES: Hello? Ballard.
VAUGHAN: I need to see you, Ballard. I need to talk to you about the project.
JAMES: ( phone ) Where are you?
VAUGHAN: ( to tattooist ) You're making it too clean.
TATTOOIST: Medical tattoos are supposed to be This isn't a medical tattoo. This is a prophetic tattoo. Prophesy is dirty and ragged. Make it dirty and ragged.
VAUGHAN: This isn't a medical tattoo. This is a prophetic tattoo. Prophesy is dirty and ragged. Make it dirty and ragged.
TATTOOIST: ( a hint of sarcasm ) Prophetic? Is this personal prophesy or global prophesy?
VAUGHAN: There's no difference. James I want you to let her give you this
JAMES: Where do you think that one should
VAUGHAN: It should go here.
JAMES: I thought that was you, up there.
CATHERINE: My last lesson's next week. James. my car. What? Tell me.
JAMES: What? Tell me.
CATHERINE: I wasn't driving. I'd left the car in the parking-lot at the airport. Could it have been deliberate?
JAMES: One of your suitors?
CATHERINE: One of my suitors.
JAMES: It's Vaughan. He's courting you. Let's go find him.
JAMES: The traffic. where is everyone? They've all gone away.
CATHERINE: I'd like to go back. James.
JAMES: Not yet. It's only beginning.
JAMES: Vera! Vera Seagrave!
JAMES: Are you leaving, Vera? Listen, I'm trying to find Vaughan.
VERA: The police are after him. An American serviceman was killed on the Northolt I was with him in the car at the
VERA: I was with him in the car at the
JAMES: I think he'll be waiting for us at the airport.
CATHERINE: James turns the car into the traffic.
JAMES: I'd like to register a claim for the black 1963 Lincoln, the one that came in a couple of days ago. Is there a form I can fill out?
POUND OFFICER: There certainly is, but you'll have to come back between 7:30 and 4:30 to get one. What's your attachment to that thing?
JAMES: A close friend owned it.
POUND OFFICER: Well, it's got to be a total write- off. I don't see what you could possibly do with it.
JAMES: Catherine. Are you all right? Are you hurt?
CATHERINE: James, I. I don't know. I think I'm all right.
JAMES: Maybe the next one, darling. Maybe the next one.
THE END: Writers : J.G. Ballard David Cronenberg
