CREATION: Written by John Collee
DARWIN: One day, Captain Fitzroy went ashore to meet them.
TECHNICIAN: Not long now. I shall be with you
ANNIE: Will this hurt, papa?
DARWIN: No. It is only a beam of light.
ANNIE: How can light make a picture.
DARWIN: Well they prepare a copper plate with chemicals on it. The chemicals are sort of energized by the light reflecting off your Then silver sticks onto the plate according to where the light is Betty was worried it would hurt. ..What a little duck she is.
ANNIE: Betty was worried it would hurt. ..What a little duck she is.
DARWIN: So as I was saying, Captain Fitzroy went ashore to interview the Fuegans..
SAILORS: Ow! Shite! Hold still ye maggot!
DARWIN: The captain had them washed and got their hair cut, then dressed them in proper clothes, and taught them proper table manners.
DARWIN: York Minster died of the smallpox but the other two learned English and went to meet the queen.
DARWIN: Two years later. Captain Fitzroy and I took them back, in the company of a young Parson, hoping they would bring the other savages to god and to teach the others by example.
DARWIN: And what do you think happened?
DARWIN: ( laughing ) Correct! A complete and total
HAIRY SAVAGES: JEMMY/ FUEGIA
YAAAAAH!!: JEMMY/ FUEGIA
PARSON: Jemmy! Fuegia
ANNIE: ( laughing )
TECHNICIAN: Very still now. No more talking
LENNY: Mama mama.
EMMA: Yes. What is it
LENNY: Horace says he's six feet tall.
EMMA: Have you all washed your hands.
HORACE: He said I have to be or I can't join the army.
EMMA: First things first. An officer must always tuck his shirt in. The boys made a camp with a camp- Oh! Sneak!
BETTY: The boys made a camp with a camp- Oh! Sneak!
LENNY: Oh! Sneak!
EMMA: Where's the campfire.
BETTY: In the summer house but Brodie put it out.
EMMA: Thank-you Parslow. Where is Mr He was killing pigeons Ma'am
PARSLOW: He was killing pigeons Ma'am
EMMA: Will everybody sit down please.
PARSLOW: Soup du jour, sir
DARWIN: Thank you Parslow
EMMA: Lord God who watches over all that we do. Bless this family and the food we eat. In Jesus name.
EMMA: I hear Mr Hooker is coming
DARWIN: He won't stay long.
EMMA: Did he say what it was about?
DARWIN: I think this is not the time to discuss it.
EMMA: Maybe the time to discuss it was before you invited him.
DARWIN: He sent a telegram. I'm sorry if it inconveniences you.
EMMA: Eat your soup now.
DARWIN: ( To Parslow ) Tell Mr Davies it was delicious, but my stomach is not quite right ( To Emma ) Excuse me.
CHILDREN: Can we take Mr Hooker to the Chalk pits. Why can't he stay. Can we pick blackberries?
EMMA: I think he is just here to work
ANNIE: Aren't you going to open it?
DARWIN: Maybe best if I just burn the whole lot.
ANNIE: ( horrified ) No papa - You can't. I'm in it.
DARWIN: Don't be absurd. Of course you're The story of me when I was small. You showed me the pages.
ANNIE: The story of me when I was small. You showed me the pages.
DARWIN: Ah yes.
ANNIE: "The natural History of babies" Of course I remember.
DARWIN: Of course I remember.
DARWIN: Annie. Annie. Annie.
EMMA: ( affectionately ) What are you doing?
DARWIN: Just playing. "Six weeks: Gurgles. Holds tight to my finger. Tries to suck. Smiles at my smile"
EMMA: "Six weeks: Gurgles. Holds tight to my finger. Tries to suck. Smiles at my smile"
DARWIN: I should add that she is musical.
EMMA: I hope you do not plan to treat all our children as little animacules to be included in your Do you mean there will be more.
DARWIN: Do you mean there will be more.
EMMA: I assumed that's what you wanted. Of course, if the idea doesn't appeal then.
DARWIN: Appeal? Dearest cousin. I am making plans for an army!
BRODIE: Careful! Not too far ahead now.
HOOKER: Give it time to take a bite.
HOOKER: He's Nibbling. Nibbling. Oh Bother. No-one move. I've got one.
ANNIE: I've got one.
ANNIE: What should I feed it?
MR INNES: A leaf I should think. What plant did you find him on?
ANNIE: In the mud under that log.
MR INNES: .Or a piece of bark maybe.
DARWIN: Cycrus caraboides. You can see from the mandibles he's a hunter. He feeds on slugs and snails.
INNES: Annie runs off, calling to the other children
ANNIE: Etty! Willy! Find me some slugs. He's hungry!
INNES: When I said I knew something of Oh tush.. I studied Theology for a year but yet I know exceedingly little of the bible.
DARWIN: Oh tush.. I studied Theology for a year but yet I know exceedingly little of the bible.
INNES: Then once I am properly installed at Down I shall take pleasure in instructing you.
DARWIN: I should look forward to that
HOOKER: Everyone's a bit wet. Sorry, but the fish are surely biting. More worms, boys, more worms.
HOOKER: Try over there, Georgey, we've used all these ones up.
DARWIN: ..so much beauty for so little Surely not without purpose. They were helping to light the ship's way were they not.
EMMA: Surely not without purpose. They were helping to light the ship's way were they not.
DARWIN: Are you familiar with the works of Thomas Malthus, Mr Innes?.
INNES: He married his first cousin didn't he?
EMMA: So did Charles.. So did I.
INNES: Oh, I was not at all
DARWIN: He made the point that if every trout, say, has a hundred offspring And so on and so on through the generations. Then the planet would be knee deep in trout in just a few decades.
INNES: Of course most of the eggs are destroyed and eaten so the numbers remain stable. That is the beauty of God's plan. Cheese and cucumber
EMMA: Cheese and cucumber
INNES: Somewhere in the woods, Annie has found a treasure trove of worms and slugs.
DARWIN: It doesn't strike you as an exceedingly wasteful plan - these myriad lives created only to be immediately extinguished.
EMMA: ( a gentle warning ) ( confidently ) They are providing food for You think they are happy about
INNES: ( confidently ) They are providing food for You think they are happy about
DARWIN: You think they are happy about
INNES: Close up on a writing worm. Hooker is instructing George how to put a worm on a hook.
HOOKER: Through his bottom and up though his mouth - perfect
DARWIN: ..To be doing Gods will.
EMMA: ( to Innes ) Please ignore him. After two glasses of claret he tends to becomes mischievous.
DARWIN: No I'm serious. If thousands are destroyed that a few may live their lives, is not the general sum total of happiness not in some kind of massive deficit?
INNES: Well far be it from me to speculate on the mind of God, far less the happiness of an earthworm ha ha ha. But it seems to me that nature is at peace.and most of her denizens are content.
EMMA: ( to Darwin ) You don't agree.
INNES: ( to Darwin ) You don't agree.
DARWIN: I think it is a battlefield. A constant and shifting struggle for survival between everything and everything else.
EMMA: I really do think men have a problem with natural beauty. They cannot ever just accept it for what it is. Children! Sandwiches! Tell me of your wife Mr Innes.
MRS DAVIES: What is he doing now, exactly?
BRODIE: Cutting the grass with nail Such a shame he never had a proper job. At least your Mr Thackeray had his books to write.
MRS DAVIES: Such a shame he never had a proper job. At least your Mr Thackeray had his books to write.
EMMA: Chop chop Georgie. Socks! And you have not buttoned your trousers.
ANNIE: Did you never think of getting married Miss Brodie.
BRODIE: Once. But he went to Australia and I missed my chance.
BRODIE: Master William. Hairbrush.
WILLY: Ow. Ow!
BRODIE: Well what do you expect. It is a birds nest.
WILLY: Papa says God doesn't care if we are neat.
BRODIE: ( brushing ) Your father is a very wize man but has a small understanding of religion. No-one can read what goes down in Gods great book of accounts. ..Fingernails.
BRODIE: You can go.
EMMA: Mrs Davies, Will you ask Jenny to wear a bonnet. I would not like people to think her fast.
WILLY: Can I bring my mouse for a What mouse?
EMMA: What mouse?
GEORGE: Elsie caught it in the barn. We need to pray for his soul
EMMA: Mice don't have souls. Leave it on the window sill. Everyone come now or we shall be late.
EMMA: Reverend Innes.
INNES: ( smiling ) Ma'am. Welcome. Welcome
DARWIN: Ring the two milky pouters. We'll sacrifice the tumblers and skeletonize them. Then. It's Mr Hooker. It's Mr Hooker!
BOYS: It's Mr Hooker. It's Mr Hooker!
PARSOLOW: Then. what Sir?
DARWIN: Just. .to the shed with them. I shall clean myself up.
HOOKER: Good choice Horace. I shall be Lord Raglan and watch the slaughter from a safe distance.
BOYS: - Will you give us a piggy-back? - Lenny cut his foot on a nail. There was lots of blood!
HOOKER: Emma. Forgive the short notice. You know Thomas Huxley.
EMMA: Only by reputation
HUXLEY: Mrs Darwin.
HOOKER: He insisted on coming and I could not refuse him.
EMMA: Tell papa his visitors are here.
LENNY: He knows already.
HORACE: He went that way.
EMMA: Anyway. Come in please. Come in.
FRANKY: Sir, Is it true when you were in the Himalayas you were imprisoned by the king of Sikkim?
HOOKER: Absolutely true.
LENNY: And he thought you were a spy for stealing his rhododendrons?
HOOKER: That's approximately true.
FRANKY: ..and he wouldn't let you leave unless you agreed to marry his fattest daughter.
HOOKER: Yes. ( Conspiratorial ) ..but you are never to tell my wife Children leave Mr Hooker alone now. I'm sure he has more important things to discuss.
EMMA: Children leave Mr Hooker alone now. I'm sure he has more important things to discuss.
HOOKER: Not really, but I think Mr Huxley
HOOKER: I have my heart set on a cup of tea and one of Mrs Davies'
MRS DAVIES: I'll do that ma'am. Please. Let me do it.
HUXLEY: We're reforming the Linnean. The committee will comprise myself, Lyell, Huxley.yourself of course if you are willing.
HUXLEY: We intend to reclaim science as a profession - wrest it away from the country parsons and beetle- collectors. Your book will be our rallying point.
HUXLEY: I have read your detailed abstract. The argument is complete and utterly compelling. All that is lacking is the detail and we know you have that in abundance. Your barnacle work has established you as the pre- eminent authority on marine life.
HOOKER: In which the whole story of creation can be read. Do not pretend to me that was not your A "family tree" of barnacles stretching back 300 million years to the time it was a free swimming prawn!.
HUXLEY: A "family tree" of barnacles stretching back 300 million years to the time it was a free swimming prawn!.
HOOKER: Of course with gaps! But that is the very point. If we but had the complete fossil record we could trace all life back to one speck of protoplasm. The branching of forms in ever more complex Yes yes, but one cannot infer too Mr Darwin. Either you are being disingenuous or you do not fully understand you own accomplishment. You have killed Mr Huxley
HOOKER: Mr Darwin. Either you are being disingenuous or you do not fully understand you own accomplishment. You have killed Mr Huxley
HUXLEY: ..and good riddance to the bearded malicious old bugger!
DARWIN: ( interrupts ) Please I must beg of you..
HUXLEY: No. I must beg of you sir. Joseph Hooker we know is too nice a chap to do it. You are a fine and brilliant man who hates to give offence - an admirable quality - wish I had it myself. But what do we believe? What do we know to be true. Will you light the way or leave us all to flounder in the mire for another decade.
HOOKER: Are you alright?
HUXLEY: It is time to write your book Mr Darwin. Write it brilliantly as we all know you can. Strike hard and fast with a blow that is utterly conclusive.
DARWIN: ( in pain ) Sir, you are talking like a revolutionary and really.
HUXLEY: It is a revolution. And not before time.
DARWIN: And you'd replace Gods Laws with The laws of logic. The laws of Knowing, as we do, that most capital crimes are her everyday practises: Theft, rape, murder, adultery, infanticide..
HUXLEY: The laws of logic. The laws of Knowing, as we do, that most capital crimes are her everyday practises: Theft, rape, murder, adultery, infanticide..
DARWIN: Knowing, as we do, that most capital crimes are her everyday practises: Theft, rape, murder, adultery, infanticide..
DARWIN: We live in a society bound together by the church. An improbable sort of barque I grant you but at least it floats. You suggest we change all that at a stroke. You wish me to rebuild, plank by plank, the very vessel we are sailing in.
EMMA: Mr Hooker.
EMMA: I beg you, please don't push him.
HOOKER: No-one can push Charles. You know how fixed he is. Bit of a barnacle himself . his own And if you prize him from his rock he will die. I know you all mean well but..
EMMA: And if you prize him from his rock he will die. I know you all mean well but..
COACHMAN: ( Impatiently ) All aboard!
HUXLEY: We'll meet again, Mr Darwin
HUXLEY: What did she say to you?
HOOKER: That it was killing him.
HUXLEY: A mighty slow death considering the time he's spent. We'll be dead and buried ourselves if he prevaricates much longer.
ANNIE: Why are you scared?
DARWIN: Like you said. You're in it.
ANNIE: Its only a book, silly.
DARWIN: What are you doing, Annie?
ANNIE: I'm making you beautiful.
DARWIN: I have to work.
ANNIE: Breath in, papa. Breathe out. Now Tell me a story.
DARWIN: I have no time..
ANNIE: About Jenny. Please?
DARWIN: Why do you always ask for Jenny? Its so sad.
ANNIE: That's why I like it. It makes me
DARWIN: Once apon a time there was a family of Orang-u-tangs living in the jungles of darkest Borneo
DARWIN: Their eldest daughter was the most loving, caring and trusting Orang of all.
DARWIN: But these qualities in themselves cannot guarantee an ape's survival. Sometimes, quite the
DARWIN: When she realized her danger it was too late.
DARWIN: They put her in a bag and carried her off..
ANNIE: " much to her loving parent's
DARWIN: The family screech and hoot, anguished, as the hunters head back off through the trees.
DARWIN: The hunters sold her the to the Sultan who promptly sold her to a visiting Englishman who packed her aboard a sailing ship and brought her to London zoo.
DARWIN: In London she had many admirers - of whom your father was but one.
DARWIN: Hoo hoo hoo hoo.
HOO!!: She startles and looks at him aggressively.
DARWIN: He reaches in his pocket. This gets her interest. She comes closer, expecting food. Darwin takers out a sprig of verbena - a strongly scented He holds in front of his nose and inhales, making contented expressions of pleasure. Jenny watches. Darwin holds the verbena towards Jenny. Cautiously she extends a hand through the bars. Their fingers touch in space, like God Giving life to Adam. For Darwin its a breakthrough - a moment of connection. Jenny eats the verbena and spits it out, shrieking angrily.
CHARLES: Wait, sorry, wait - I've got something else here for you
CHARLES: ( pleasurable surprise )
CHARLES: Hew Hew Hew.
JENNY: ( pouting )
ANNIE: Go on papa.
DARWIN: Go on what.
ANNIE: The bit where she gets sick and No. Why do you want to hear that I just like it. It makes me cry.
DARWIN: No. Why do you want to hear that I just like it. It makes me cry.
ANNIE: I just like it. It makes me cry.
EMMA: Are you coming to bed?
DARWIN: He doesn't move. She comes in
EMMA: What did Huxley want?
DARWIN: He thinks I should write it and be done with it. He feels it is a question of moral courage .or the lack of it.
EMMA: You did not tell him about your His theory is that I am making myself ill by holding back. That I should lance the boil. Plunge in and hang the consequences.
DARWIN: His theory is that I am making myself ill by holding back. That I should lance the boil. Plunge in and hang the consequences.
EMMA: Thank the Lord he is not a
DARWIN: I've concluded he is right. Bite the gag. Speed is everything. It will all be over in a matter of
EMMA: It is not mere months that concern me Charles. Nor even years or decades. Emma has. They both know it. She turns abruptly from the door and hurries away.
EMMA: Do you really care so little for your immortal soul - for the knowledge that you and I may never be together, in all of You know that what concerns you concerns me also. What do think has held me in limbo all these
DARWIN: ( softly ) You know that what concerns you concerns me also. What do think has held me in limbo all these
DARWIN: Dearest Emma. You know This is not a decision made lightly..
CONGREGATION: All things bright and beautiful, all creatures great and small. All things wize and wonderful, The lord God made them all.
DARWIN FAMILY: All things bright and beautiful all creatures great and small. All things wize and wonderful the Lord God made them all.
INNES: Let us pray.
INNES: Teach us that all misfortune. All sickness and death, all the trials and miseries of which we daily complain are intended for our good, being not the vagaries of an uncaring universe but the corrections of a wize and affectionate parent
DARWIN: Excuse me
INNES: Turn with me now to the book of Job, Chapter Two verse twelve
BEADLE: Are you all right, sir?
DARWIN: Never better. Thank-you.
ANNIE: ( to ANNIE ) What are we looking at?
FRANKY: ( to ANNIE ) What are we looking at?
DARWIN: A weasel.
ANNIE: The weasel seizes the bunny rabbit by the back of the neck and shakes it savagely. The rabbit shrieks and spasms. Annie is beside herself, drumming the ground with her feet in a fever of fear and pity. The rabbit is still in its dearth throes, its neck broken, its back legs still jerking
NO!: The weasel seizes the bunny rabbit by the back of the neck and shakes it savagely. The rabbit shrieks and spasms. Annie is beside herself, drumming the ground with her feet in a fever of fear and pity. The rabbit is still in its dearth throes, its neck broken, its back legs still jerking
ANNIE: No! No! Stop it. Daddy. Stop it. Make it stop.
DARWIN: Annie, Annie, Annie.
GEORGE: The chickens do that too when cookie kills them
ANNIE: ( tearful furious ) Chickens are different! ( To her father )
DARWIN: The weasel has to eat. Its the way of the world. Annie
ANNIE: Its not fair. Its not fair.
DARWIN: No, its not fair at all.
DARWIN: ..but still it is extraordinary, do you not think, that a weasel should learn to dance the polka.
EMMA: Good-night Lenny.
DARWIN: Good-night Frankie
EMMA: Good-night Betty.
DARWIN: Good-night George
EMMA: Good-night Etty.
DARWIN: Good-night Willy
EMMA: Dear Charles
DARWIN: Dearest Emma
EMMA: "Loving she is, and tractable though wild. And innocence hath privilege in To dignify arch looks and laughing eyes; And feats of cunning; and the pretty round Of trespasses, affected to provoke Mock chastisement, and partnership in play"
DARWIN: ( smiling ) Then we were wrong. She is not unique after all.
DARWIN: This is Devonian, about 400 million years ago. Rocks like this might have fishes in them, trilobites, tree ferns, corals
ETTY: Is this a bit?
DARWIN: No that is Cretaceous Etty. It was made a hundred millions years ago, when this cliff was a coral reef and Down village was a swamp full of great crocodiles.
DARWIN: We might find oysters and sponges imprinted in it, or dinosaurs if we were lucky.
GEORGE: What's a dinosaur?
ETTY: Professor Owen invented them.
DARWIN: They are the giant lizards which lived on earth before there were any humans.
BETTY: But they weren't real
DARWIN: Of course they are, Betty. Did I never tell you of the skeletons I found in South America Do you remember Mr Martell?
ETTY: Annie arrives, hopping nimbly over the rocks still in her wet swimsuit
ANNIE: Yes you do. When he came to tea and showed us drawings of his Iguanodon. And George burnt his fingers roasting chestnuts.
ETTY: Oh yes.
ANNIE: She doesn't remember.
DARWIN: You should have your clothes on Annie. You are quite blue.
ANNIE: Savages don't swear clothes.
ANNIE: I'm a Fuegan.
DARWIN: Well don't fall and hurt yourself. Your mother would never forgive me.
DARWIN: I've found one!
ANNIE: I've found one!
INNES: First positions. Second positions.
INNES: Second positions.
INNES: Assume the distance.
INNES: ...and begin.
DARWIN: Dearest Hooker. I am one week into the great project and I feel at last that it is real. Its title is "On the Origin of Species." As I write theses words why does it feel as though I am confessing to a murder.
CUT TO: 63 INT. DARWIN'S STUDY. THE PAST . DAY 63
EMMA: Are you listening, Annie?
DARWIN: What happened?
ANNIE: Its not nothing. ( To Annie ) Why are your knees bleeding?
DARWIN: Its not nothing. ( To Annie ) Why are your knees bleeding?
EMMA: Mr Innes had to have words with her. It is sorted now.
DARWIN: Words are very well. I am asking what happened to her knees.
ANNIE: Mr Innes sent me to the corner and made me kneel on rock-salt.
DARWIN: ( in a rush ) I said there were dinosaurs and he said there wasn't dinosaurs but there were because you saw ( interrupting ) Annie. Let me talk to your father. He told her to kneel til she repented.
ANNIE: ( in a rush ) I said there were dinosaurs and he said there wasn't dinosaurs but there were because you saw ( interrupting ) Annie. Let me talk to your father. He told her to kneel til she repented.
EMMA: ( interrupting ) Annie. Let me talk to your father. He told her to kneel til she repented.
DARWIN: Repented what?
EMMA: The bleeding is due to her own stubborn-ness. It is finished It is by no means finished. Where is my coat. Its intolerable
DARWIN: It is by no means finished. Where is my coat. Its intolerable
EMMA: Charles. Please. Mr Innes is a dear friend and neighbor. I beg you at least appraise yourself the facts. She contradicted him repeatedly. The fault was Annie's Mr Innes was quite within his rights.
EMMA: Mr Innes is a dear friend and neighbor. I beg you at least appraise yourself the facts. She contradicted him repeatedly. The fault was Annie's Mr Innes was quite within his rights.
DARWIN: ( his arm is stuck ) In his rights to torture our children for expressing the plain
DARWIN: Well damn how he sees it. Damn the pair of them and all their Charles listen to yourself.
EMMA: Charles listen to yourself.
DARWIN: Emma please. I will not have Innes tell me what I can and cannot tell my children.
EMMA: It is what I have told them every night at bedtime. It is the instruction my aunt and your brother and most of our family live by. It is what all of the village believe .or try to. Charles. Must our children be revolutionaries at nine years of age. Write to him with your concerns - our concerns - about the manner of the punishment but please do not set yourself against him. Think of my feelings on this. I beg you.
DARWIN: You're right of course.. I'm
DARWIN: You're still angry with me.
EMMA: No. Why?
DARWIN: I can always tell by your Not angry. I'm sad.
EMMA: Not angry. I'm sad.
ANNIE: Talk to her.
DARWIN: ( still writing ) And say what? She does not want to hear it.
ANNIE: Then write to her.
DARWIN: ( irritably ) That is what I am doing Annie, I am writing all of it.
DARWIN: ..and then she can read it, and we can all be free of this! Now, please, Annie no more
DARWIN: Parslow pulls a lever. There's the sound of crashing water, a yell of pain from inside the tower. Ravens rise, calling, from the surrounding trees.
ANNIE: What's an oviduct?
DARWIN: Nothing that need concern you.
ANNIE: ( sulkily ) I know what it is anyway.
DARWIN: Darwin stands naked, clutching to two hand rails for support as a great tub of freezing water tilts and pours its contents on top of him. Darwin yells
DARWIN: ..What was once a free- swimming creature now finds itself glued by its head to a rock, flailing for food with its
EMMA: " .About the midst of this valley I perceived the mouth of hell to be; and it stood also hard by the wayside. Now, thought Christian, what shall I do?
EMMA: And ever and anon the flame and smoke would come out in such abundance with sparks and hideous noises, that he was forced to put up his sword, and betake himself to another weapon, called "All
ETTY: Is Daddy not coming to kiss us He is still a little bit ill from working .maybe tomorrow.
EMMA: He is still a little bit ill from working .maybe tomorrow.
BETTY: That's what you said last night.
ETTY: I think when Annie died he stopped loving us.
EMMA: Oh come now, Etty. You know that's not true. He is just a little bit ill - and a little bit
ANNIE: Is there really such a place as No of course not. How can there If he is supposed to be loving and forgiving - what on earth is the sense punishing all these millions of souls.
DARWIN: No of course not. How can there If he is supposed to be loving and forgiving - what on earth is the sense punishing all these millions of souls.
ANNIE: But just suppose if there was. And all this was punishment.
DARWIN: All what?
DARWIN: I don't know what you mean. All
DARWIN: 84 EXT THE WATER TOWER. DAY 84
EMMA: Talk to Mr Innes. Please. You are clearly not well
DARWIN: He is what? A physician now
EMMA: You know what I mean. I think he can help you.
EMMA: I am taking the children to Maer for a while, to visit their talk to him
PARSLOW: Will you be eating sir.
DARWIN: No thank you.
DARWIN: Annie? ...Annie.
DARWIN: Raucous male laughter takes us to
THATCHER: Mr Darwin! Mr Darwin! I was explaining to Mr Goodman here your interest in breeding. Mr Darwin is our foremost scholar in the village.
DARWIN: No. No I am but one of many. There is Squire Lubbock, and the reverend Innes
THATCHER: ..he is also a noted explorer, the author of many books..
DARWIN: .which no-one has read.
THATCHER: .a fellow of the Royal society and a prodigious expert on Mr Goodman, now, is the foremost pigeon fancier in all the southern counties. Kent champion two years running. I swear he can give you any beak or plumage in four generations. Head and tail in five.
DARWIN: Mr Goodman, now, is the foremost pigeon fancier in all the southern counties. Kent champion two years running. I swear he can give you any beak or plumage in four generations. Head and tail in five.
THATCHER: Mr Goodman, now, is the foremost pigeon fancier in all the southern counties. Kent champion two years running. I swear he can give you any beak or plumage in four generations. Head and tail in five.
DARWIN: How do you do it?
GOOODMAN: By breeding cousin with cousin. I find it the fastest way to alter the strain - provided you do not weaken it in other ways.
DARWIN: Get rid of them.
PARSLOW: Which ones sir?
DARWIN: All of them. All of it.
DARWIN: Go. Go!
PARSLOW: Sir. Mr Darwin.
PARSLOW: Please rest sir. I'll have John Lewis remove it. Have some breakfast now and rest. Shall I call the doctor?
DARWIN: God know.
PARSLOW: Or the water tower.
DARWIN: A pox on all of them!
DOCTOR: Calomel then, twice daily.
DARWIN: I will not give it to her.
DARWIN: Not to any of mine I hope. On the Beagle I dropped some on a microscope slide and all my animacules died of it.
DOCTOR: Well animacules are not persons. Presumably they would die if you dose them with Madeira wine.
DARWIN: On Madeira they thrived most excellently, as did Captain Fitzroy, while it lasted.
DOCTOR: Or if she would submit to be Please no.
ANNIE: Please no.
DARWIN: I will write to Dr Gully again.
DOCTOR: ( sceptical ) The hydro-therapist?
DARWIN: I have always found his treatments most effective.
DOCTOR: .no matter that they defy all sense of logic.
DARWIN: Logic is not everything.
DOCTOR: Then I shall bid you good day.
DARWIN: Parslow will bring your carriage. I will be down presently
DARWIN: I should take her to Malvern.
EMMA: I think it is better she is here.
DARWIN: Gully can care for her properly there. She can be treated daily, as I was.
EMMA: Charles no. She is better with us. With her family. Please do not take her away from me.
PARSLOW: Post for you sir.
DARWIN: 102 EXT. DOWN HOUSE. THE PRESENT. DAY. 102
INNES: Ah, there you are Mr Darwin.
INNES: May I join you.
DARWIN: By odd means
INNES: Mrs Darwin informed me you would be alone and ..perhaps a need to counsel. You dropped this. What a beautiful postage stamp.
INNES: You dropped this. What a beautiful postage stamp.
DARWIN: Yes. It is from the Spice I do rather envy your wide circle of correspondents. In my youth I always wanted to travel.
INNES: I do rather envy your wide circle of correspondents. In my youth I always wanted to travel.
DARWIN: You are still young. You could be a missionary and follow in Mr Livingstone's footsteps.
INNES: Yes, although I have always felt there is quite enough evil at home without looking for it Mrs Darwin told me of the book you are writing.
DARWIN: Not any more, thank goodness
INNES: You have finished it?
DARWIN: It has been finished for me. My correspondent In the spice islands has arrived independently at exactly the same idea, expressed in a mere twenty pages.
INNES: The Lord moves in mysterious He does indeed Mr Innes. I was reflecting only the other day on the fact that he has endowed us in his blessed generosity with not one but nine hundred species of intestinal worm each with its own unique method of infiltrating the blood supply and burrowing through the mucosa.
DARWIN: He does indeed Mr Innes. I was reflecting only the other day on the fact that he has endowed us in his blessed generosity with not one but nine hundred species of intestinal worm each with its own unique method of infiltrating the blood supply and burrowing through the mucosa.
DARWIN: And then again on the great love he shows for butterflies by inventing a wasp to lay eggs inside the living flesh of Well. It is not for us to guess at His reasons.
INNES: Well. It is not for us to guess at His reasons.
DARWIN: No. We can leave that for Mr Wallace now. Should I advise him to stay overseas do you think? If he shows his face in Kent he may be required to kneel on rock
INNES: I once valued our friendship Mr Darwin. I had hoped it might be possible to restore it. Clearly in your present mood that is not going to be possible. My regards to Mrs Darwin
DARWIN: What? I am forestalled by Mr Wallace. That is the simple fact of it. What reason do you have to be angry?!
DARWIN: He reaches the centre of the lawn and stopped by a sudden intense pain in the gut which strikes him like a blow and fells him to his knees. He lies their gasping, his vision clouding as the pages of the Wallace letter slip from his grasp and are scattered to the wind. A view from high above: spiralling downwards on the Darwin garden, as household servants emerge from various quarters and hurry to his assistance.
EMMA: You have a visitor.
DARWIN: No. No. I will not be bled or lectured to. It is me. Thank God you are still with us. Word came from London you had suffered an apoplectic No. Simply the great relief of liberation. Did you read the Wallace abstract.
HOOKER: It is me. Thank God you are still with us. Word came from London you had suffered an apoplectic No. Simply the great relief of liberation. Did you read the Wallace abstract.
DARWIN: No. Simply the great relief of liberation. Did you read the Wallace abstract.
HOOKER: It is a letter. You have a book
DARWIN: .barely half of it
HOOKER: You have a book. What is not already on the page is most certainly inside your head and I intend to extract it, if it kills us both.
DARWIN: You have been talking to Huxley.
HOOKER: No. Had I done so he would have hastened here himself armed with every instrument of torture known to her majesty's navy. Charles I have read the first Chapters. It is brilliant. You must continue.
DARWIN: I cannot. Seriously Joseph, I am completely blocked. All my old symptoms have returned with a vengeance. The sweats the shakes the abdominal pains. The whole endeavour was cursed from the Charles. It was you who opened my eyes to the wonders of science. So let me open yours. You have an illness. You have had it as long as I have known you.
HOOKER: Charles. It was you who opened my eyes to the wonders of science. So let me open yours. You have an illness. You have had it as long as I have known you.
DARWIN: Not Malvern
HOOKER: Why not. What is there to be scared of there. He has worked for you in the past it will work again. Then come back and finish the book. Your enemies are already toasting their good fortune but they shall not What are you talking about. I have no enemies.
DARWIN: What are you talking about. I have no enemies.
HOOKER: They are legion, believe me, and they are implacable. We are all of us fighting a battle against fear and superstition but we can win this battle. We must win it. You can win it for all of us. Go to malvern, then come back and finish it.
EMMA: Charles, please reconsider
CHARLES: Emma it is weeks now, months. She is getting worse, not better.
EMMA: Then I am coming with you.
DARWIN: You cannot come. How can you possibly come in your condition.
EMMA: It is not so far.
DARWIN: It is two days by coach and train. Who will look after the I do not care for the others. I care for Annie!
EMMA: I do not care for the others. I care for Annie!
DARWIN: Leave us please, Etty.
BRODIE: Make sure she is tucked in. Watch her shawl
ANNIE: I don't need to go.
DARWIN: The coach is outside. I will carry her from here.
EMMA: She clasps Emma's hand. Darwin keeps heading for the door. Emma holds fast to Annies hand and follows behind
ANNIE: She clasps Emma's hand. Darwin keeps heading for the door. Emma holds fast to Annies hand and follows behind
DARWIN: You will see Mamma when you are better. Say goodbye now.
EMMA: Wait. I am coming with you
DARWIN: Please, Emma
EMMA: Wait there.
DARWIN: Get aboard. Brodie
ANNIE: ( shouts back )
DARWIN: ( to the coachman ) Go. Go.
EMMA: ( calls ) Go now!
DARWIN: Go now!
ANNIE: The coach sets off. Emma runs to the gate calling
EMMA: Charles. Please God. No. Annie!
DARWIN: Tell him not this way.
PARSLOW: ( loudly ) Hello there. Stop. Can we go by the other route
ATTENDANT: The Worcester Road is shorter.
DARWIN: .by the low road.
PARSLOW: He wishes to go by the other As you will sir.
ATTENDANT: ( with a sigh ) As you will sir.
MR GULLY: Mr Darwin, old friend. Mr Darwin. It has been too long I fear. Tut tut tut tut tut. What have we now what have we now?
GULLY: Darwin shows him.
MR GULLY: Ugh. Shirt up. Let me feel your
DR GULLY: Pulse hectic, togue furred, liver tender and enlarged.
DR GULLY: No doubt you have been exercising your brain every hour that God gave you.
DARWIN: I was persuaded to write book.
DR GULLY: Madness there are far too many of those already. Are you Sleeping?
DARWIN: DR GULLY
DR GULLY: I suppose never taking the 50C dilution of Chelidonium.
DARWIN: ( shakes his head ) I had the gardener build a water tower. It no longer has any Of course not. Your gardener is not a hydrotherapist. What on earth possessed you ?
GULLY: Of course not. Your gardener is not a hydrotherapist. What on earth possessed you ?
DARWIN: I feared I was dying.
DR GULLY: Oh come come come. We shall not have that talk here.
GULLY: A smart spinal scrub. Cold douche daily at 7.00. Wrapping in towels and sweating by the lamp.
DR GULLY: No red meat, no reading, no mental agitation of any kind. We shall soon have you right old friend, we shall have you right.
BEARDED STRANGER: Mr Darwin is it?
BEARDED STRANGE: William Carter of Southampton. I read your Beagle account many years ago. Former naval man myself. What brings you here? Myself, a Bilious fever with blood per rectum, but I have every faith in Gully. The man is a miracle worker.
GULLY: What action do you most associate with the symptoms. Eating? Strong emotion? Strenuous Excercise?
DARWIN: Does the exercise of memory count as an action.
GULLY: Memory of what.
DARWIN: My eldest daughter. You remember Of course. Of course. You must accept there was nothing more we could do.
GULLY: Of course. Of course. You must accept there was nothing more we could do.
DARWIN: I know that. I know.
GULLY: You say you were writing about No. It is a scientific text. But I had reached a point, beyond which it was impossible to progress. She had been my companion throughout. Now it seemed she was ahead of me in a place I could not follow.
DARWIN: No. It is a scientific text. But I had reached a point, beyond which it was impossible to progress. She had been my companion throughout. Now it seemed she was ahead of me in a place I could not follow.
GULLY: is a great consolation to her
DARWIN: is a great consolation to her
GULLY: on it.
DARWIN: on it.
GULLY: ( a beat ) Are you familiar with the writings of DeQuincy."There is no such thing known to the mind as which do not actually enter the realm of consciousness. Nervous fibres exist after all throughout the whole body. Is it not possible that certain primal feelings manifest in some physical way. Eczema. Boils. A fever. Might some blocked passion imitate a gall-stone? Or even manufacture one.
DARWIN: ( a beat ) Are you familiar with the writings of DeQuincy."There is no such thing known to the mind as which do not actually enter the realm of consciousness. Nervous fibres exist after all throughout the whole body. Is it not possible that certain primal feelings manifest in some physical way. Eczema. Boils. A fever. Might some blocked passion imitate a gall-stone? Or even manufacture one.
GULLY: ( a beat ) Are you familiar with the writings of DeQuincy."There is no such thing known to the mind as which do not actually enter the realm of consciousness. Nervous fibres exist after all throughout the whole body. Is it not possible that certain primal feelings manifest in some physical way. Eczema. Boils. A fever. Might some blocked passion imitate a gall-stone? Or even manufacture one.
DARWIN: which do not actually enter the realm of consciousness. Nervous fibres exist after all throughout the whole body. Is it not possible that certain primal feelings manifest in some physical way. Eczema. Boils. A fever. Might some blocked passion imitate a gall-stone? Or even manufacture one.
GULLY: which do not actually enter the realm of consciousness. Nervous fibres exist after all throughout the whole body. Is it not possible that certain primal feelings manifest in some physical way. Eczema. Boils. A fever. Might some blocked passion imitate a gall-stone? Or even manufacture one.
DARWIN: machine to read nervous impulses, or a telescope to look inside the body I suppose we can only guess at it.
GULLY: inside you. If you find yourself open to it, there is a way of 119 EXT. STREETS OF MALVERN. NIGHT 119
DARWIN: Mrs St John?
ST JOHN: Just leave your coat on the table. Sit down here. Show me your palm.
DARWIN: Sorry. I'm confused. What is it you do exactly.
DARWIN: Envision how? When Gully described you I fancied some scientific instrument..
DARWIN: Well. I have a ten shilling note here in my wallet.
DARWIN: If you can tell me the numbers on it we can begin.
DARWIN: I am a professional man. And I asking for no more than I ask of all my colleagues - a demonstration of competence.
DARWIN: Then I am sorry to have wasted your time.
DARWIN: How dare you.
DARWIN: .prey on people's grief like I have done no such thing.
DARWIN: ( furious ) Do you take me for an idiot? Clearly Gully has appraised you of my history.
DARWIN: It is chicanery of the very lowest order and I despise it Get out.
DARWIN: Annie. Annie!
DARWIN: Is Mrs Carey still the landlady
LANDLORD: The door opens on a chain.
DARWIN: My daughter Annie .lodged here some years ago. Can I come in?
DARWIN: I know this is an intrusion. I wonder - could I visit the room she stayed in?
LANDLORD: Wait here. I'll get the missus.
LANDLADY: Which room?
DARWIN: Fourteen. I would only be there ten minutes. I am happy to pay.
LANDLADY: Up one flight and along the corridor to the right.
DARWIN: I remember.
LANDLADY: Try not to touch anything.
DARWIN: Is she any better? Does she want for anything? Darling Annie. I am here now.
DARWIN: Darling Annie. I am here now.
BRODIE: There there. It will all soon be
DARWIN: Save her. I will believe whatever. Forever. Please save
DARWIN: Is that good, my lovely
ANNIE: ( suddenly lucid ) Beautifully good. I am making Gully thinks her in imminent
ANNIE: The rabbit.
DARWIN: The rabbit taught him the polka.
ANNIE: The rabbit taught him the polka.
DARWIN: I don't understand my love.
ANNIE: Tell me about Jenny.
DARWIN: What about her.
ANNIE: When she died
DARWIN: I don't want to talk about death my love.
ANNIE: But tell me. I like it.
DARWIN: Well. What the keeper told me was. When she was very sick with pneumonia, lying very still, he tried to feed her but she shook her head, looking at him as though to say: "Its nice of you but really you shouldn't bother". And as he bent down to take the spoon away she brought her arms around his neck and kissed him. And then she was dead.
DARWIN: Sorry. I startled you.
EMMA: Take your coat off by the fire there. What time is it?
DARWIN: We need to talk. I need to talk to you.
EMMA: Of course, but dry your hair. I shall call for a towel.
DARWIN: I went back to Worcester Road. I saw Annie.
EMMA: Charles. No.
DARWIN: Let me tell you.
EMMA: I don't want to hear it. This must stop.
DARWIN: You don't understand.
EMMA: I do! Do you think me deaf and blind. You have lived with her and spoken with her every day since she died. She is more real to you than I am. She's dead Charles.
EMMA: She is more real to you than I am. She's dead Charles.
DARWIN: I know that.
EMMA: Then what is wrong with you that even our poor daughter cannot be left in her grave but you I know she is dead. I know it. It is you who will not accept the fact, preferring to think of her in heaven.
DARWIN: I know she is dead. I know it. It is you who will not accept the fact, preferring to think of her in heaven.
EMMA: Get away from me!
DARWIN: Snowy white wings and dancing with the angels. Is that your idea of honesty.
EMMA: Why did you come back. I will not hear this!
DARWIN: You have to Emma, everything these was between us is gone. The boat is wrecked and sunk now. We have to hold to something To what. Your ghosts? Your theories? What Charles.
EMMA: To what. Your ghosts? Your theories? What Charles.
CHARLES: To the truth of what we know it.
DARWIN: Open this door Emma. The truth, how wonderful and extraordinary our daughter was..
EMMA: ( through the door ) I know that. I do not need you to say it. Of course I know.
CHARLES: But free of the fantasy, free of the rest, the silly vain hope that we will be reunited in heaven and the nagging unspoken belief that I killed her!
EMMA: I have never said that
CHARLES: Say it now. Say it. And all the rest that follows. That I should have kept Annie warm that day on the beach. I should not have taken her to Malvern. I should have let you come.
EMMA: I should have insisted.
CHARLES: No. It was me. I took her from you It was my fault.
EMMA: I could have followed. I was her mother what was I thinking of.
CHARLES: We thought she would live. You were not to know.
EMMA: I did. I did know. I knew when you left that I would never see her again. I hated you for taking I hated myself. I knew that none of them could save her.
CHARLES: I hated myself. I knew that none of them could save her.
EMMA: What are you saying?
CHARLES: The unspeakable . I am saying that you and I, in making our perfect child, endowed her with the very weakness which killed her. Emma. That is what I couldn't write. That is what forestalled me all these years. It wasn't you I was angry with, it wasn't Innes and it wasn't God. I was angry with my theory. It was the truth I was angry with. It is the truth.
ANNIE: Tell me a story.
DARWIN: I'm busy Annie.
ANNIE: ( petulantly ) I'll go away again, then you'll be sorry.
DARWIN: All right, come here, come here.
DARWIN: Once there was a man Who, while travelling in South America, came apon a beautiful and dangerous idea.
DARWIN: Here, here. Come on, come on then .I wont hurt you.
DARWIN: .I wont hurt you.
DARWIN: He knew his wife wouldn't care for this creature so when he came home he locked it in a box, where it couldn't run around and do any
DARWIN: But every so often he'd open the lid and feed it, just because he couldn't bear to let it die.
DARWIN: One day he opened the box and discovered it wasn't in there at all. It had escaped with all its babies, who were nesting all over the house making a terrible mess.
DARWIN: But finally they caught them all, and bundled them in a blanket and he asked his wife to dispose of them as she saw fit.
ANNIE: And what did she do?
DARWIN: I don't know but I fancy she took them out in the garden and set them free.
DARWIN: Done. I have finally got it out of the air and into these pages. Will you read it and decide what must be done with it. I confess I no longer know and I am very
DARWIN: She looks up from the fire. Darwin crosses the lawn to her. She's burning leaves and dead-heads from the flower garden.
DARWIN: Did you read it?
EMMA: I wrapped it and put it on the table there.
DARWIN: I wrapped it and put it on the table there.
EMMA: I wrapped it and put it on the table there.
EMMA: You're right. True or not it must all be said. Probably most of it is true. God help us.
EMMA: Careful. I have soot all over my
THE END: Writers : John Collee
