SHOOTING DRAFT: EXT. - NIGHT It's raining like hell. Flashes of lightning reveal momentary glimpses of a decayed urban/industrial landscape. Far below us, a mysterious glistening wet rock lies engulfed in the drowning earth. We descend toward the rock. Sporadic flashes of lightning distort our perspective of the stone. It looks strangely beautiful, like a diamond stuck in the dark mud. Closer. Closer. Suddenly, STRONG MALE HANDS cut across the frame and wrench it free from its muddy grave. Even closer. And we discover that the underbelly of this beautiful rock is teeming with every kind of slithering repulsive insect. FLASH!! Lightning obliterates the frame. ( FLASHES OF LIGHT from lightning, car headlights, photographic strobe units and flashlights are used throughout the following sequences as recurring transitional devices. )
BRIAN: Her father worked the night shift here. Most nights he'd bring her with him. She was eleven years old.
BRIAN: This is it. This is the where he'd take her whenever he had the urge to molest her.
BRIAN: Of course! Nobody would have heard her cries over the noise of the
DRIVER: Damn! This defroster never works.
DRIVER: Have a problem with your car?
BRIAN: This is where she murdered her first victim. They found his body over in the corner, shot through the head.
BRIAN: They found her second victim over
DRIVER: ( unconvincingly ) My matches are all wet. You got a ( scans the dashboard ) Yeah. It's here somewhere. It's my wife's car. Ah. there it is.
DRIVER: ( scans the dashboard ) Yeah. It's here somewhere. It's my wife's car. Ah. there it is.
BRIAN: She lured them here with the promise of sex. Imagine the anger and hatred she must have felt returning to this place. Did she use that to help her pull the trigger?
CARRIE: Brian stops talking. Carrie scans the darkness. From the A Thunderous Roar!!
DRIVER: ( unconvincingly )
CLOSER: EARLY GRAYCE, 25, athletic build, big watery eyes, jet black hair, stands by the railing. Rain streaks down his expressionless face. He dropped the rock.
BRIAN: KIM ( O.S. ) ( sarcastic )
NEW ANGLE: A small party in progress. Graduate student types, smoking, drinking. The usual. Carrie and Brian stand out in this group, their look is more stylized, their attitude less complacent. Carrie, in particular, looks restless.
CARL: Man or woman?
BRIAN: Carrie tunes in and pays attention to the game.
CLAUDIA: Real or fictional.
BRIAN: Ted Bundy.
CARRIE: Ted Bundy.
CLAUDIA: What a guess!
CARL: Doesn't count, she's disqualified.
CARRIE: Because you've been living with him, and his thesis for the last year and a half. He's probably been researching Ted Bundy all week.
CARL: Because you've been living with him, and his thesis for the last year and a half. He's probably been researching Ted Bundy all week.
PETER: Carl, you are the world's worst loser!
CAROL: Any word from that gallery?
CARRIE: Not yet.
CAROL: .Apprehensive. Let's not forget these are the people who banned the Mapplethorpe show. Anyway, California's loaded with galleries.
CARRIE: .Apprehensive. Let's not forget these are the people who banned the Mapplethorpe show. Anyway, California's loaded with galleries.
CAROL: ( nods toward Brian ) You mean 'Ted Bundy's' finally agreed to leave?
CARRIE: .Soon as he finishes his thesis.
CAROL: Listen, Eric's been "finishing" his for over three years now.
CARRIE: Yeah, well Brian's got 'til the end of the summer, then I'm outta here.
CAROL: I'm sorry, but I just can't see you veggin' out in LA-LA LAND.
CARRIE: Oh, I don't know. I think that once I dye my hair blonde, buy a string bikini and cultivate that tan. I could be veggin' out with the best of 'em. Like fer shurr!
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
BRIAN: I'm talking about the mind and culpability of a serial killer. Someone who has no ability to distinguish between right and wrong should not be imprisoned, let alone Oh, here we go again. Let's just lay it all at the altar of misfiring synapses, amok biochemicals and horrendous childhoods.
ERIC: Oh, here we go again. Let's just lay it all at the altar of misfiring synapses, amok biochemicals and horrendous childhoods.
BRIAN: Look, it's a fact, most of these people suffer from a severe chemical brain imbalance. That enough Tequila?
ERIC: Probably not.
BRIAN: ( to Eric ) The answer is research and treatment under hospital supervised conditions, not the electric chair!
PETER: Yeah, until it's your mother's head they find in the refrigerator.
BRIAN: Executing the killer wouldn't bring my mother back.
CARRIE: Thank god!
BRIAN: ( sarcastic to Carrie ) Ha, ha.
ERIC: Yeah, but it'd sure make you feel better, wouldn't it?
BRIAN: No, it wouldn't make me feel better.
PETER: .Looking for this?
CARRIE: ( to Brian ) If I have to listen to one more "tweed" talk about his dissertation, I'm going to throw up.
ERIC: ( to Brian ) Label it anyway you want, the bottom line is these people are evil, plain and simple.
BRIAN: ( continuing with Eric ) Okay, now you want to talk about good versus evil? Well then let's start with Adam and Eve and the snake.
CARRIE: Who do I have to blow to get out of A. I gotta go.
BRIAN: ( reconsiders ) A. I gotta go.
EARLY: Coffee and a bowl of chili, please.
OLD MAN: ( from beneath his shadowy brim. ) The Antichrist'll be a woman, in a man's body. Seven heads and seven Make that to go.
EARLY: Make that to go.
"OPEN.": AT THE FRONT DOOR She wonders about the sign for a moment, then stares curiously out the window. not a soul in sight. She locks the door and begins closing up for the night. She turns to make her way to the rear of the diner then notices something. Slowly she moves along the side wall, past a number of highbacked HER POV Sitting on one of the funky old leather seats in a booth are a pair of RED HIGH HEELED SHOES ( the same pair worn earlier by the Pretty Teenage Girl ). The Waitress glances nervously about the interior. No one in sight.
HER POV: Sitting on one of the funky old leather seats in a booth are a pair of RED HIGH HEELED SHOES ( the same pair worn earlier by the Pretty Teenage Girl ). The Waitress glances nervously about the interior. No one in sight.
EARLY: .Size 6.
EARLY: That's right ain't it, size 6?
EARLY: Happy birthday Adele.
ADELE: Early, you are so sweet.
ADELE: I feel kind of like the wizard of oz, you know when she gets the red Well Dorothy, why don't you hand me that chili there.
EARLY: Well Dorothy, why don't you hand me that chili there.
BRIAN: Tonight turned out to be pretty The party?
CARRIE: The party?
BRIAN: The warehouse. I'm not that drunk.
CARRIE: It was definitely the high point of the evening.
BRIAN: ( getting excited ) Just being there where it really happened. It was different. more Mmm. I love it when you talk like
CARRIE: Mmm. I love it when you talk like
OMITTED: Carrie pushes Brian back onto the bed.
OMITTED: Carrie climbs on top of him. She kisses his neck. Slowly starts working her lips across his chest and down his stomach.
OMITTED: You thirsty Lucy?
ADELE: You thirsty Lucy?
OMITTED: She waters her small cactus ( Lucy ).
ADELE: Bet that feels good, don't it?
ADELE: Now if that ain't Momma's little
NEWSCASTER: This was the third such attack in the past month and while an extensive police operation is underway. no arrests have yet been made.
ADELE: She glances around to make certain that no one's looking, then 'flashes' her body to Early with a giggle.
ADELE: Have a good one. Oh. I forgot to tell you, Mr. Diebold was by again yesterday.
ADELE: Oh. I forgot to tell you, Mr. Diebold was by again yesterday.
ADELE: He said, if he ain't got the rest of his money by the end of the month, he's gonna "kick us the. F-U-C-K outta here."
EARLY: He said that, huh? Cursed in front of you?
ADELE: You gonna talk to him?
EARLY: If he comes back, don't answer the
ADELE: Suppose he hears me inside?
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
BRIAN: I picked up some Chinese. Did you hear from the gallery?
BRIAN: ( tentative ) You got your slides back.
CARRIE: Yeah, same old shit. Too graphic. not suitable for mass consumption. one of those. I forget. Who cares.
CARRIE: Christ Brian I'm dying here. you are too, you just don't know it yet. You're too busy working on that damned thesis. And, thing is. when you finally do finish it, it's just gonna get filed away on some shelf at the University Library. then what?
CARRIE: ( continues ) I thought you wanted to be a writer.
BRIAN: ( quietly ) .I do.
CARRIE: Then you can write anywhere. Let's get out of here, while we still can.
BRIAN: Carrie, come on. we can leave anytime we.
CARRIE: No we can't. We can never leave once you start talking about tenure. and vacation pay. and parking privileges and. oh shit! let's just go to California now, right now, before it's too late.
BRIAN: .just like that?
CARRIE: Just like that. Load up the Lincoln. point it West. stop when we hit the fucking ocean.
CARRIE: That's half the kick anyway. Doing something you've never done before. Experiencing something. different. Something. unpredictable.
BRIAN: .These are great.
EARLY: Adele, who's car's that out.
PAROLE OFFICER: She's not here.
EARLY: What are you doin' here? I ain't supposed to be at the Parole Office 'til tomorrow, two o'clock.
PAROLE OFFICER: Social call.
PAROLE OFFICER: You're supposed to call me when you lose your job Early. I stopped by the mirror factory today, you left quite a mess behind there.
EARLY: Wasn't my fault.
EARLY: .It was dangerous there and they treated me like shit.
PAROLE OFFICER: ( swallows a hiccup ) Yeah. Well you never have been 'treated right'. Have you? ( hiccup ) Your father was pickin' on you when he threw you out of the house for stealing the tires off his truck. The Marines misunderstood you when they gave you that dishonorable
PAROLE OFFICER: ( hiccup ) .The police were way out of line when they stopped you from beating that bartender half to death. And no doubt God'll be pickin' on you on Judgement Day.
EARLY: I ain't got nothing against God. It's the people he let come into the world. lot of them should have been stopped at the door. What are you looking for?
PAROLE OFFICER: That girlfriend of yours ain't much for housekeeping, is she.
EARLY: I'm thinking about moving.
EARLY: Maybe down to Texas. Probably get some work on them offshore oil rigs. Hear the pay's good. hell, the weather's got to be better'n here.
PAROLE OFFICER: What are you talking about? You know you can't leave the state. What you can do is get a job.
PAROLE OFFICER: You be at this personnel office, Friday, three o'clock sharp.
EARLY: What is it?
PAROLE OFFICER: .Janitor's job.
EARLY: Oh man. come on, I don't want no janitor job.
PAROLE OFFICER: Hey, I don't give two shits about what you want or don't want. I'm telling you to be there Friday, three o'clock sharp or the sheriff will be here for dinner. You understand?
EARLY: You oughta think about putting a bag over your head. Might cure them
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
CARRIE'S POV: As we approach Brian from behind, moving closer, closer.
BRIAN: Hey. I didn't have the heart to wake Thanks. What are you doing?
CARRIE: Thanks. What are you doing?
BRIAN: Well, I sat down with my tapes and your photographs, which are great by the way. and I started writing. So how's it going?
CARRIE: So how's it going?
BRIAN: .I think it's the best stuff I've
BRIAN: .and I think I know why.
CARRIE: Because I was there. And for a moment that night I understood how she came to pull the trigger.
BRIAN: Because I was there. And for a moment that night I understood how she came to pull the trigger.
CARRIE: ( sarcastic ) This mean your finally going to finish your thesis?
BRIAN: Look, fuck the thesis. I think there's a book here. Your photographs and my research, together.
CARRIE: A book on the warehouse murders?
BRIAN: A book on some of the most infamous murderers in America. I want to go to where they lived and where they killed and I want you to photograph What I'm thinking is, we can drop down through Tennessee, across Arkansas and into Texas, from there it's a straight shot into California. "We don't stop. until we hit the fucking ocean."
BRIAN: What I'm thinking is, we can drop down through Tennessee, across Arkansas and into Texas, from there it's a straight shot into California. "We don't stop. until we hit the fucking ocean."
OMITTED: It's about fucking time, Kessler! I'd just about given up on you.
CARRIE: It's about fucking time, Kessler! I'd just about given up on you.
BRIAN: We don't have enough money, but we'll figure something out.
BRIAN: .It's either the best idea I've had in a long time. or there's way too much MSG in this stuff.
DIEBOLD: ( shouts ) Hold on a minute there boy!
EARLY: Early tries the engine again. Still won't start. Diebold, getting closer. The dogs are barking.
DIEBOLD: Goddamit, you're gonna settle up that rent here and now.
DIEBOLD: I've had it with your bullshit boy. I want my money.
DIEBOLD: ( hollering ) You sonofabitch! Come back here!
DIEBOLD: That's it! You tell him. I want you both the fuck out of here by Sunday or I'm gonna call the Police.
DIEBOLD: .You won't be laughing come Sunday little girl.
DIEBOLD: Elvis! Get the fuck off him!
CAROL: You know, they say one of these
BRIAN: ( sarcastic ) .the whole thing's going to slide into the ocean. Yeah, I know.
CAROL: "Looking for someone to take turns at the wheel and share expenses. on a week long cross country blue- highways tour of historic murder You gotta be kidding. Who in their right mind would want to do that?
BRIAN: .I would.
CAROL: ( watching Brian walk away ) Like I said.
EARLY: Where's the personnel office at?
RITA: ( points down the hall ) First door on the left.
ADELE: She walks carefully around the junk piles. It's dark; hard to see. She comes to the edge of a deep dark hole and peers in. She can't see anything but hears the rustling of a shovel digging.
ADELE: Early? You down there?
EARLY: ( from inside the hole ) What's up Adele? Dinner ready?
ADELE: After a moment's hesitation, Early resumes his digging.
ADELE: The digging stops again.
ADELE: Tell me more about California.
EARLY: Well. for one thing. They think faster out there, on account of all that warm weather they got; cold weather makes people stupid, that's a fact.
ADELE: I guess that'd explain why there's so many stupid people around here.
EARLY: Yeah, and in California you never have to buy fruit 'cause it's all on the trees everywhere you turn. .and, 'course there ain't no speed limit out there, and all drugs are legal. And I heard your first month's rent is free; state law. I figure 'til we get settled we can just move around month to month.
ADELE: What'll we do out there?
EARLY: Well. the very first thing we're gonna do. is get us a couple of six packs of Lucky Lager and climb up on toppa' that famous Hollywood sign and howl at the moon.
ADELE: You know. I read once. Ain't nothin' on that big old moon 'cept some old golf balls those astronauts left behind.
EARLY: Bull. That ain't right. Government sends people there all the time, just don't want us to know about it.
ADELE: Don't be long now, dinner's 'bout I heard that.
EARLY: I heard that.
CARRIE: What did he sound like on the phone?
OMITTED: Real polite. Kept calling me 'sir.'
BRIAN: Real polite. Kept calling me 'sir.'
BRIAN: ( grins ) I like that.
CARRIE: I still think we should have met them first.
BRIAN: Beggars can't be choosers. They were the only ones who answered the ride share note, remember?
CARRIE: Please God, we're gonna be stuck with these people for a week, don't let them be as boring as Brian's friends. Anything. but that.
BRIAN: Oh, yeah. He had a real thick accent right outta "Deliverance." "Still? Who said anything about a still? Get ya ass up in them woods!"
CARRIE: Funny, very funny.
BRIAN: ( quoting again ) "Aintry? This river don't go to
ADELE: We shouldn't be doin' this, Early. You leavin' the state, ridin' around with strangers. besides, what kinda people would want to stop at places where other people was murdered.
ADELE: What if they're dangerous?
EARLY: They ain't dangerous Adele. They're
ADELE: Early Grayce!
ADELE: ( changes subject ) Did you settle things with Mr. Yeah I left him with the car. We're all squared up now.
EARLY: Yeah I left him with the car. We're all squared up now.
EARLY'S POV: As Adele picks up her spilled personal possessions, Early notices her prized cactus in the bag.
EARLY: What's this?
ADELE: She reaches for the cactus but misses.
EARLY: What kind of a person would carry a cactus in her purse!
NEW ANGLE: The Lincoln comes gliding into view.
CARRIE: You've got to be kidding me, they look like Okies!
CARRIE: Jesus. They've probably got five bucks between them. Turn around.
BRIAN: Lighten up.
ADELE: Geez, they look kinda weird.
EARLY: You just smile, let me do all the How many times you gonna tell me As many times as it takes.
ADELE: How many times you gonna tell me As many times as it takes.
EARLY: ( smiling at Brian ) As many times as it takes.
BRIAN: Hi I'm Brian. Early, and you must be Adele.
BRIAN: Let me help you.
ADELE: Hi, I'm Adele.
CARRIE: ( reserved )
ADELE: ( shyly ) I like your hair.
CARRIE: .I said, I like your hair.
ADELE: .I said, I like your hair.
CARRIE: .Thank you.
BRIAN: Tight fit.
EARLY: Best kind.
ANOTHER ANGLE: Reveal that it's Early's trailer and car that are on fire.
BRIAN: Uh, we can stop somewhere if you and Adele haven't had time for breakfast, Well, it's like this, Mr. Kessler.
EARLY: Well, it's like this, Mr. Kessler.
BRIAN: Well, it's like this, Bri'. I don't eat much in the mornin', never have. Maybe a beer once in a while; Lucky Lager's my favorite.
EARLY: Well, it's like this, Bri'. I don't eat much in the mornin', never have. Maybe a beer once in a while; Lucky Lager's my favorite.
ADELE: It's because of what he read in a book once. That folks needin' breakfast is a myth, or whatever, put out by those cereal people.
NEW ANGLE: So what do you do Early?
BRIAN: So what do you do Early?
EARLY: Oh. I do some work up at the Merrick Mirror factory, or I used to.
ADELE: One night we figured out how much bad luck he must have comin' from all them mirrors he broke. Four hundred and ninety four years to work it all off. After he dies, he'll have to keep coming back to earth over and over and over.
CARRIE: Adele and early show no sign of understanding the word.
ADELE: ( beat ) You know, if you do something bad to somebody fate will pay you back by something bad happening to you.
CARRIE: ( beat ) You know, if you do something bad to somebody fate will pay you back by something bad happening to you.
ADELE: That French ain't it?
BRIAN: So Adele, did Early happen to mention the places we'll be stopping at?
EARLY: Yeah Bri' I did.
ADELE: ( to Carrie ) Are you takin' the pictures?
CARRIE: ( surprised ) Is it hard to learn?
ADELE: Is it hard to learn?
CARRIE: Not really.
EARLY: ( to Brian ) You gonna talk to the people who did those murders?
BRIAN: That's a good idea. Unfortunately most of them have been executed.
EARLY: .Too bad.
PAROLE OFFICER: What happened?
POLICE OFFICER: Who are you?
PAROLE OFFICER: His Parole Officer.
POLICE OFFICER: Right, I talked to you on the phone. They say it's a torch job, that sound like your boy?
PAROLE OFFICER: Could be.
POLICE OFFICER: Where would we find him?
PAROLE OFFICER: Hell if I know, crazy son of a bitch said he was thinking of moving to Without his car?
POLICE OFFICER: Without his car?
POLICE OFFICER: What about the owner of the house. .this John Diebold, any idea where he might be?
PAROLE OFFICER: No, but I can tell you he's not gonna be too happy about this.
PAROLE OFFICER: POLICE OFFICER
POLICE OFFICER: .That'd be my guess.
PAROLE OFFICER: Looks like somebody cut off his ring Well now I'd say that's the least of Mr. Diebold's problems.
POLICE OFFICER: Well now I'd say that's the least of Mr. Diebold's problems.
ADELE: Thank you.
EARLY: All right, who gets the.
EARLY: Here you go Bri'. Got a couple a bags of chips and some jerky, just holler if you want some.
EARLY: Can't hurt.
BRIAN: How much do I owe you?
EARLY: Forget it. Guess I don't know the first thing about cameras.
ADELE: ( embarrassed ) Guess I don't know the first thing about cameras.
CARRIE: Well, the first thing. is you need film. Preferably black and white.
ADELE: You wouldn't have any color film, would ya?
CARRIE: .Yeah, sure.
ADELE: I like things in color, pink, purple, and red. I dunno, black and white is kinda. boring.
CARRIE: You just aim and press the button.
ADELE: Look, Pigeon Forge!
ADELE'S POV: Road sign to Pigeon Forge.
ADELE: I've heard of that! It's where Dolly Parton has her park. "Dollywood". I just think that's so clever. Hollywood. Dollywood. Get it?
EARLY: ( under his breath ) Shush, Adele.
ADELE: Early, can we stop there. just for a little while.
BRIAN: The Novaks are all gone but the fence that Michael Zaruba was hired to put up is still here.
BRIAN: The Novaks embraced the young drifter as one of their own.
ADELE: Hey you two. Give me a smile now. Neighbors said he was a quiet young man, who was often seen pushing the children on the swing set.
ADELE: Give me a smile now. Neighbors said he was a quiet young man, who was often seen pushing the children on the swing set.
BRIAN: ( continues into tape recorder ) Neighbors said he was a quiet young man, who was often seen pushing the children on the swing set.
BRIAN: ( continuing ) Everything was fine until the day the family ran out of work for Michael, and had to ask him to leave.
BRIAN: Sorry, Early. Could you step out the way, for a second?
BRIAN: The first one to die was the nine year old daughter.
BRIAN: The little girl scans all their faces.
BRIAN: .My name's Brian, what's yours?
BRIAN: .Could I speak to your parents?
GIRL: ( rudely ) Pa! There's more of them.
BRIAN: ( friendly ) Hi, my name is Brian Kessler.
BRIAN: ( continues less confident ) I'm a writer, I'm working on a book about famous murderers.
BRIAN: .I'm sure you're aware that this is the Novak house.
BRIAN: ( corrects himself ) .I mean, this was the Novak house. ( pause ) With your permission I'd like to come in and photograph.
FARMER: ( muttering ) Goddamned ghouls.
BRIAN: ( upset ) We could have been in and out of there in less than ten minutes.
CARRIE: Hey, I got some great stuff. it's
CARRIE: It's okay. okay?
BRIAN: ( continuing on the heel of the kiss ) .That house is part of American history now, whether he likes it or
EARLY: Forget about it Bri'. I wouldn't be surprised if that Karma thing don't come back and get him.
CARRIE'S POV: Shifts from the mirror to the house in the background. as the car pulls out of the driveway, the little girl watches from her porch.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
BRIAN: ( studying his map ) Well we've come three hundred miles so far. Not a bad day's haul.
BRIAN: You got any family or friends in California, Early?
EARLY: ( chewing ) Nope. You?
ADELE: .Well, least we got each other. That's somethin'.
OMITTED: Brian looks up, sees Carrie's expression. Then what's causing it. Early mops up the last bit of food on his plate. He notices Brian and Carrie staring at him and slowly puts his foot back down on the floor then the sock. Brian picks up the check to see the total. Starts pulling his wallet out. Isn't quite sure how to bring up the tab to Early.
OMITTED: Brian looks up, sees Carrie's expression. Then what's causing it. Early mops up the last bit of food on his plate. He notices Brian and Carrie staring at him and slowly puts his foot back down on the floor then the sock. Brian picks up the check to see the total. Starts pulling his wallet out. Isn't quite sure how to bring up the tab to Early.
EARLY: Thanks Bri', I'll get the next one. Think it's time we hit the sack.
ADELE: ( to Carrie ) Sweet dreams.
CARRIE: ( spits out a mouthful of water ) You mean because I object to having somebody take off their shoe and scratch their foot while I'm eating I'm prejudiced?
BRIAN: ( reading notes ) He can't help the way he was raised. I kinda feel sorry for him.
CARRIE: Feel sorry for him? Obviously you didn't get a whiff of that sock?
CARRIE: ( under her breath ) Up yours.
BRIAN: I heard that.
EARLY: Can you believe thirty bucks for this room. for what? A lumpy mattress, that crummy TV and a Early, sing me a song.
EARLY: Which one.
OMITTED: Early start sing with her. As the song ends.
ADELE: ( laughs ) Hey can we go to that Chinese restaurant when we get to Los Angeles? You know, to see all them famous
EARLY: Only if they let me put mine down
DARKNESS: BRIAN ( O.S. )
BRIAN: .And all I'm saying is I think we ought to try and get along with them. That's all.
CARRIE: You try, I'm gonna pretend they're with somebody else.
BRIAN: I don't want to talk about it.
CARRIE: I don't want to talk about it.
CARRIE: Pretty smooth how he stiffed us on
BRIAN: He didn't stiff us. He paid for the gas remember.
CARRIE: I'm telling you he's nearly broke and we're going to end up paying for those two.
BRIAN: You finished?
CARRIE: .Um, maybe. maybe not.
CARRIE: .Um. Funky fucking sock.
CARRIE: .and what's with that hair? Is that grease or motor oil or what?
CARRIE: .you believe that tattoo? Looks like he had another girls name there and carved it out.
CARRIE: .and that body odor.
TO FIND: Early leaning quietly against the same wall. Listening to them. As he does, he uses the scissors to cut through the crusty bandage on his finger. Then, across the room he notices Adele in bed asleep. the scissors stop.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
BRIAN: Early lifts his beer bottle in salute.
EARLY: Where's Adele?
CARRIE: Where's Adele?
EARLY: She wasn't feeling so good.
WAITRESS: ( burps ) Nah. Don't eat breakfast. Never
EARLY: ( burps ) Nah. Don't eat breakfast. Never
WAITRESS: Ah sir. sir.
WAITRESS: ( concerned ) We ah. don't have a liquor license here. So I'm afraid.
EARLY: Well don't be, I got plenty more where this one came from.
CARRIE: ( at a loss for words ) You cut your hair.
ADELE: Early cut it. .Once he gets an idea in his head there's no holding him back.
BRIAN: Nice job Early.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
EARLY: .Need a hand with those bags?
CARRIE: No, thanks, I can manage.
EARLY: I got 'em.
CARRIE: ( startled ) Take your time.
BRIAN: Take your time.
EARLY: ( starts to read ) This the book your writing?
BRIAN: It's just a work in progress, kinda This guy killed a mess of people.
EARLY: This guy killed a mess of people.
BRIAN: Henry Lucas.
EARLY: Henry Lucas.
BRIAN: Henry Lee Lucas. Well he was only convicted of killing eleven but he claimed to have killed over three Wonder what all them people done made him so mad?
EARLY: Wonder what all them people done made him so mad?
BANG!!: The front tire blows. the car lurches. Brian reacts, pulling the Lincoln to the side of the road in a dusty halt.
EARLY: Here Bri' let me do that.
EARLY: How did he get away with it for so long anyhow?
BRIAN: He almost always killed strangers. Spent years moving on from one place to another. That made it real hard to track him down.
ON CARRIE: She notices Early's wallet on the ground.
ON CARRIE: She picks up the wallet.
ON CARRIE: She opens the wallet to find two one dollar bills inside.
CARRIE: You dropped this.
ADELE: Early Grayce if this ain't your lucky
BRIAN: I guess it's your turn to pay Early.
HIS POV: Inside the store he sees a video surveillance camera. It worries him. Distracts him momentarily. Suddenly from behind him. o.s. A car horn HONKS LOUDLY! Early turns to see a late model Mercedes behind him. He just gazes at the driver. Aggravated, the driver leans on the horn and motions Early out of his way. Early stares at the man a moment longer, then steps to one side and lets the car pull past him.
NEW ANGLE: The girls leaning against the car. Adele watches Carrie take a drag on her cigarette.
ADELE: I used to smoke before I met Early. But he broke me of that.
CARRIE: Broke you?
ON EARLY: He watches the Fat Man inside the office.
ADELE: Early don't think women should smoke or curse or drink liquor.
CARRIE: So you don't do any of those things.
ADELE: Better not, or Early'd whip me.
CARRIE: ( back to Adele ) He whips you?
EARLY: ( friendly ) Hey Bri'. ah. You don't want to go in there. It's a real mess, if you know what I mean.
BRIAN: That bad?
EARLY: .Then some.
ATTENDANT: ( to Carrie ) Comes to twenty eight dollars.
CARRIE: Talk to him.
EARLY: Call it an even thirty.
EARLY: I'll drive Bri'.
EARLY: Adele, get in the back.
ADELE: .Hey you're good. Thought you said you never played before?
CARRIE: I haven't. I'm a fast learner.
EARLY: .They never caught that Black Dolya Killer, huh?
BRIAN: Dahlia, no.
EARLY: Now why is that?
BRIAN: Some people think it's because he never killed again. He just disappeared back into society.
EARLY: You don't sound too convinced 'bout I always thought it was the work of a serial killer. Anyone who took that much time and care bisecting another human being must have been enjoying it and would have done it again. And again. Until someone stopped him.
BRIAN: I always thought it was the work of a serial killer. Anyone who took that much time and care bisecting another human being must have been enjoying it and would have done it again. And again. Until someone stopped him.
EARLY: That your. "theory", ain't that what they call it?
BRIAN: You wanna hear mine?
EARLY: You wanna hear mine?
BRIAN: ( amused ) Ain't you goin' to record it?
EARLY: Ain't you goin' to record it?
BRIAN: ( into tape ) Early Grayce, June twenty third.
EARLY: ( into tape ) Well I'll just bet he's still alive. Old, livin' in some trailer park or somethin' somewhere, but still alive. Thinkin' every night 'bout what he done. Goin' over and over it in his mind. How smart he was for getting away with it.
ADELE: ( to Carrie ) You lose!
BRIAN: ( to Early ) I suppose anything's possible.
EARLY: You ever play any pool Bri'?
EARLY'S POV: Up ahead a HONKY TONK BAR with a large sign "POOL TABLES,
CLOSER: The Lincoln is parked in front of Brian and Carrie's room. The horn honks. Early is behind the wheel, engine running. Brian steps out of the motel room.
CARRIE: ( sarcastic ) Don't forget your key.
BRIAN: Why'd I open my big mouth?
CARRIE: ( to Adele ) Why didn't you go with them?
ADELE: I told you how Early feels 'bout a woman drinking.
CARRIE: How'd you meet Early? I was hitchhiking' one day and he picked me up. At first I wasn't gonna get in on account of his car was in such sorry shape. I said, "I ain't never seen a white man drivin' a car like this."
ADELE: ( grins ) I was hitchhiking' one day and he picked me up. At first I wasn't gonna get in on account of his car was in such sorry shape. I said, "I ain't never seen a white man drivin' a car like this."
ADELE: ( continues ) An' he said right back, "You shouldn't judge by appearances little lady. this vehicle might just be a flying saucer disguised as a car, for all you know."
ADELE: Well, I got in and we got to talkin', and the next thing I know, I'd moved in with him in this old trailer. Hey! Wouldn't it be something if we all ended up sharing a house together in California?
ON CARRIE: She lowers the camera from her eye and studies Adele.
CARRIE: You know I can fix that haircut for you, if you want?
ADELE: You can?
EARLY: I wonder if there's any "doors" out
EARLY: You know. "openings" to other I read there are a lot of them out West, mostly in the desert. They say if you know what you're doing, you can travel anywhere in the Universe in a matter of seconds. Wouldn't that come in handy?
BRIAN: By the way, I'm not much of a pool Shit, it ain't hard to play pool. I can teach you everything ya need ta Hell yeah! I'll even spot ya a few points first game.
EARLY: Shit, it ain't hard to play pool. I can teach you everything ya need ta Hell yeah! I'll even spot ya a few points first game.
BRIAN: Hell yeah! I'll even spot ya a few points first game.
EARLY: Hell yeah! I'll even spot ya a few points first game.
BRIAN: Wait a minute. You're gonna hustle Nah. how much money have you got?
EARLY: Nah. how much money have you got?
ADELE: How do you get your cigarette to stay there like that.
CARRIE: I'm cool.
ADELE: Could I try that?
ADELE: What's this?
CARRIE: It's a portfolio of my work.
ADELE: Your pictures. Can I see 'em?
CARRIE: Adele grabs the black leather binder and sets it in her lap. Carrie continues to cut Adele's hair. Adele opens the binder and takes a look at the first erotic image and slaps the cover back down. She's embarrassed.
ADELE: Carrie watches her in amusement. After a moment, Adele reconsiders, and opens the book. She gazes at the shocking
ADELE: You took this picture?
CARRIE: Took 'em all.
CARRIE: That's me.
ADELE: No it is not!
CARRIE: Hold still.
ADELE: Sorry. Boy I'll tell ya, if Early found a picture of me like that I'd be black and blue for a week.
CARRIE: ( suddenly serious ) You shouldn't let him do that to Do what?
ADELE: Do what?
CARRIE: Adele. are you serious?
ADELE: ( defensive ) You think Early's bad to me, don't
CARRIE: Carrie starts cutting Adele's hair again.
ADELE: Well. You're wrong. I ain't saying Early ain't never hit me. but he never hurt me.
ADELE: ( continues ) .When I was fourteen years old three boys raped me in the back of a truck, and beat me so bad I was in bed for almost four months. ( beat ) .I feel safe with Early, most the time he treats me pretty good. And I know he wouldn't let nothin' like that ever happen to me again. Hey, that ain't so bad now.
ADELE: Hey, that ain't so bad now.
WAITRESS: Maybe when you grow up a little sonny.
BRIAN: These aren't Lucky Lager, I ordered Lucky Lager.
WAITRESS: Sorry honey, 'ain't nothin Lucky around here.
YOUNG CRACKER: What did you say to her city boy!
BRIAN: Nothing, I jus.
YOUNG CRACKER: ( cuts him off ) What's a jism gargling cum drunk fairy like you looking at a pretty girl like that for anyway?
EARLY: ( matter of factly ) You'd better hit him first Bri', 'cos it's comin'.
YOUNG CRACKER: This yur' boyfriend?
BRIAN: ( dumbfounded ) Hit him.
EARLY: Hit him.
EARLY: ( angry ) Bri' this shit ain't Lucky Lager!
YOUNG CRACKER: ( to Early ) Hey Asshole!
BRIAN: They don't stock it here Early.
YOUNG CRACKER: ( to Early, furious ) Why you fuckin'.
WAITRESS: Sorry about that, he's always causing
WAITRESS: These are on the house.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
ADELE: My momma's a beautician. Guess that's where I get it from. She wouldn't hear of my moving in with Early. on account of his just getting out of jail and all. Ain't seen her in nearly a year now. I wish she'd call me, just once.
CARRIE: ( interrupting ) What's Early been in jail for?
ADELE: ( reluctantly ) Carryin' a gun.
CARRIE: .Anything else?
ADELE: An' resistin' arrest. At least that's what the Police said.
CARRIE: Jeez. Adele!
ADELE: I'd better be goin'. It's late.
CARRIE: Carrie stares down at her feet. Red toenails. Cottonballs between the toes.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
EARLY: Got to see a man about a mule.
EARLY: Gotta take a piss.
EARLY: Any reebs left in the back seat?
EARLY: ( relief ) That's what we used to call a beer when we was kids. Beer spelled Last one.
BRIAN: Last one.
EARLY: .Well I probably drunk more than my share, anyway. you go on an' have it.
BRIAN: No, it's all yours. It's on me. for saving my ass back there.
EARLY: Hey, that's what buddies are for,
EARLY: ( voice drops almost to a whisper ) You know those doors I was talking about? Found two of them back in Kentucky. Shit, I wasn't even looking for one the first time. Me and the boys are just swingin' our sickles by the side of the road, and I turned around and there it was. this door with this bright blinding white light all around it. course I'm thinkin' I must be sunstroked or somethin'. so I close my eyes figurin' I'll count ten and it'll be gone right. so I'm countin'. ( he closes his eyes ) .1-2-3-4-5. an' I'm 'bout ta piss myself right. -6-7-8-9. 10. An' I open my eyes slow, spectin' it won't be there right. ( unconvincingly ) .and it wasn't. What were you "swinging a sickle"
EARLY: ( unconvincingly ) .and it wasn't. What were you "swinging a sickle"
BRIAN: What were you "swinging a sickle"
EARLY: For. 'bout three years.
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
BRIAN: Gotta see a man about a mule. What's
CARRIE: The same thing that's been "wrong" the whole trip. Your good buddy Early.
BRIAN: Who said he's my good buddy?
CARRIE: You sure been acting like you were. .Out whoopin' it up, a drankin' and ever' thang.
BRIAN: Hey come on, you two were drinking too. so what's the big deal. Yeah, and you should've seen how terrified she was that he'd find out. He beats her.
CARRIE: Yeah, and you should've seen how terrified she was that he'd find out. He beats her.
BRIAN: How do you know that?
CARRIE: She told me. .but only when she "deserves" it. Did you know he was in jail?
BATHROOM: Brian turns on the light. Takes a piss. A long one.
BRIAN: Yeah, for stealing a car. Aaahhhh.
CARRIE: .He told her it was for carrying a gun, but the truth could be murder for all we know.
LIVING ROOM: Carrie steps over to the bed, pulls the sheets back. Brian leans out the bathroom door:
BRIAN: Stop being so fucking melodramatic! If it was murder he'd still be locked up or on parole, in which case he wouldn't be allowed to leave the Maybe he wasn't allowed to leave! Geezus Brian!
CARRIE: Maybe he wasn't allowed to leave! Geezus Brian!
BRIAN: ( sarcastically ) Of course! The accent, the clothes, and those table manners!. He's got to be a mass murderer! ( pause ) What else could he be?
BRIAN: You know, it wouldn't even surprise me if he turned out to be. a
BRIAN: Goddamnit!. my fucking toe!
CARRIE: ( to Brian inside room ) Try not to lose consciousness 'til I get back.
EARLY: Ain't you done enough drinking for .Brian hurt his foot. Sometimes. Don't know why it is. I get so hot I can't stand it. I just start sweating like a dog. You ever get like that?
CARRIE: .Brian hurt his foot. Sometimes. Don't know why it is. I get so hot I can't stand it. I just start sweating like a dog. You ever get like that?
EARLY: Sometimes. Don't know why it is. I get so hot I can't stand it. I just start sweating like a dog. You ever get like that?
CARRIE: ( tenuous )
EARLY: I can feel it start to run down my .and down my back. right into my
EARLY: .and everything starts stickin' together. keeps running down the back of my legs like two rivers racin' for my boots, see who gets there
EARLY: You never get that hot, huh?
CARRIE: I gotta get back before this ice
EARLY: No, never. Excuse me.
CARRIE: No, never. Excuse me.
EARLY: You like Skynard?
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
ADELE: My daddy always took sauerkraut juice and tobasco sauce for a hangover, mixed in one egg not two, and some tomato juice.
BRIAN: I'm okay, thanks.
BRIAN: What! What!
BRIAN: What is it?
CARRIE: Look again!
EARLY: Only thing my old man ever gave me is that goddamn .45.
EARLY: Bri', you're jerkin' it when you pull the trigger, hold it real steady.
ADELE: Boys'll be boys.
ADELE: You know any tricks?
ADELE: You wanna learn some?
EARLY: Steady. Breath in. now let half of it out, and. fire.
EARLY: Bri, I want you to keep this gun. consider it a present. Never know, California could turn out to be a dangerous place.
EARLY: Tell ya Bri., I'm still a little sleepy,. think Adele and me are gonna take us a fiesta.
CARRIE: ( pissed off )
NEW ANGLE: CLOSE, on a small audio cassette player as it comes to rest on a giant butcher block table in the center of the room. Brian pops a cassette in the player.
CARRIE: What's that?
BRIAN: A copy of a tape they found. He recorded everything.
FLASH!! FLASH!!: Carrie fires off a series of shots from different angles. Brian scans the place trying to imagine what happened. Screams from the audio tape bounce off the walls.
BRIAN: ( speaks into his small hand held tape recorder ) His mother had him working in here before he was eight years old. killing animals with a sledgehammer that was bigger than he was.
BRIAN: When she was pissed at him, she'd beat the shit out of him and lock him in here overnight. .Eventually the boy wakes up one morning, picks up that sledgehammer and starts hurting back.
BRIAN: ( continuing ) .Eventually the boy wakes up one morning, picks up that sledgehammer and starts hurting back.
FLASH!! FLASH!!: Carrie takes a few more shots of the ominous interior. Then she stops, turns and walks out of the room. She's had enough. Brian follows after her.
BRIAN: There's more.
CARRIE: I'm finished.
BRIAN: Look. I know you're pissed off about the gun, and I don't blame
CARRIE: Brian, I'm not pissed off. God damm it, turn that thing off.
CARRIE: I'm scared. A week ago you would never have even thought to pick up that gun. This afternoon you're out there wielding it around like Clyde fucking Barrow, for Christ's sake! What's with you?
BRIAN: Okay, it was a cheap thrill, it was stupid, I admit it, alright? But let's not blow this. Not now. Let's just get the photos.
CARRIE: I can't believe I agreed to do this.
OMITTED: Oh come on, don't give me that shit. you wanted to take these photos as much as I wanted you too.
BRIAN: Oh come on, don't give me that shit. you wanted to take these photos as much as I wanted you too.
CARRIE: Wrong! I was willing to do whatever it took to get you up off your ass and on the way to California. There's a big difference.
THE LINCOLN: As she approaches it, through the rear windshield she sees. Early and Adele fucking wildly! Carrie wants to turn away, but she can't stop watching them. Fascinated, she raises the camera to her eye and zooms in on THROUGH CARRIE'S CAMERA LENS: ON EARLY AND ADELE Early is sitting against the back seat. Adele is straddling him. Carrie's finger finds the shutter button. Early's arms move up under Adele's dress. Her hands press up against the roof. She's trembling. Wavering. Carrie's finger presses down on the button, CLICK!! Then in one swift movement Early sweeps Adele onto the back seat. Close on Early's face. He's sweating. Lips moving. Talking dirty to Adele. Keeping her finger on the button, Carrie rapid fires through a whole roll of film. She's oblivious to the whine of the motor drive once all the film is shot out. Then unexpectedly!! Early looks directly into the camera, at Carrie. And smiles. And continues to fuck Adele. A chill rushes through Carrie, she almost drops the camera. She runs back toward the tunnel. and right into Brian's arms. He startles her. She pulls away from him.
CARRIE: Brian I want him out of our car!
BRIAN: Why, what did he do?
CARRIE: Brian get him out of the car. Next gas station either he leaves or I
OMITTED: EXT. DESERT - DUSK The Lincoln passes through frame. In the background, the surreal image of an industrial complex bathed in an eerie artificial light.
CARRIE: Twenty dollars in the tank and a carton of cigarettes. .the ex-mental patient with a history of arrests is still at
NEWSMAN: .the ex-mental patient with a history of arrests is still at
ATTENDANT: Here's your cigarettes.
ATTENDANT: .And change. Better be careful, looks like a bad one coming. Where you headin'?
CARRIE: Hear it never rains there. Must be
ATTENDANT: Hear it never rains there. Must be
NEWSCASTER: .we would like to repeat. .there is a nationwide manhunt
NEWSCASTER: .there is a nationwide manhunt
NEWSCASTER: .of the fatal stabbing and robbery of Mr. Joseph Davies Robbins.
NEWSCASTER: If you see this man.
EARLY: I ain't ridin' in no bus. bitch.
EARLY: You just sit there and keep your mouth shut.
EARLY: I knew that boy'd have a hogleg here
EARLY: Get over here.
EARLY: Sit your ass down in that corner.
ADELE: Early, what're you doin'?
EARLY: Go back to the car and keep Brian there. I don't want him in here. Do it Adele. Now!
EARLY: What's your name, boy?
ATTENDANT: ( very scared ) Walter Livesy.
EARLY: Think. I might just have to kill you Walter. How do you feel about that?
ATTENDANT: Not so good. You sure you have to?
EARLY: I don't know. Wish I did.
CARRIE: Early, just think.
EARLY: Shut your mouth.
BRIAN: Adele, what are you doing back here?
ADELE: .Lost my purse. Could you help me look for it? It's probably under the seat.
EARLY: Where you from Walter?
ATTENDANT: ( nervous shake ) Vernon, Florida.
EARLY: Never heard of it, any huntin'?
ATTENDANT: Turkey mostly.
EARLY: Turkey's are real smart. Smarter than most people think.
EARLY: Tell you what Walter, you lie down there now. You make sure you stay put for a while after we leave.
ATTENDANT: .Mind if I hold that Bible?
EARLY: What do you need a Bible for?
EARLY: You think I'm goin' to kill you. Well that'd make me a liar then wouldn't it?
ATTENDANT: No sir. Here you go.
EARLY: Here you go.
EARLY: ( mumbles to himself ) I wonder if Adele would like one of ( beat )
BRIAN: What was that?
EARLY: ( surprised at the feathers ) What the fuck!
BRIAN: Carrie, what's wrong? Early, we went through this already, you have to leave.
EARLY: ( spits out a feather ) 'Fraid not Bri'. Drive Adele.
EARLY: Hate to be an Indian-giver but I'm gonna have to ask for my gun back.
BRIAN: ( to Early ) What happened back there?
CARRIE: He shot him in the head. oh God!
ADELE: ( raising her voice ) He did not, you liar. Take that back.
CARRIE: He's a killer, Brian. He's fucking Everybody just shut up!
EARLY: Everybody just shut up!
EARLY: You two just cooperate and do what I say, and we'll all arrive safe and sound in California, as planned. unless, of course, Adele don't kill us first with her driving.
EARLY: What the hell is this stuff?
ADELE: It's Chinese food. It was the only place open. You said you was starving, you'd eat anyth. Yeah but, what is it?
EARLY: Yeah but, what is it?
ADELE: I don't know, they didn't speak too good English.
EARLY: And just what exactly are the Chinese doing here in the middle of the American desert anyway?. Didja get the beer?
EARLY: ."Chink" beer!
EARLY: Oh hell, I'm sorry Bri. Adele, honey, untie Brian, he's starving over there. Carrie, you want some?
EARLY: Where's the damn forks and spoons
EARLY: .Is it just me, or has this whole trip been goin' downhill ever since we ran outta Lucky Lager?
HER POV: She sees that a few of the white down feathers still cling to her. Closer. and she sees that one of the tiny feathers is tinged with blood. The Gas Station Attendant's. It freaks ON BRIAN AND EARLY Early stops. thinks for a moment.
BRIAN: ( quietly ) How many people have you killed Early?
ON CARRIE: She tries to brush the bloodied feather away. but with her hands bound, she can't reach it.
EARLY: Well now, how many people d'you see me kill?
BRIAN: ON CARRIE In quiet desperation, she raises her arm to her lips. and blows the solitary blood tinged reminder away.
ON CARRIE: In quiet desperation, she raises her arm to her lips. and blows the solitary blood tinged reminder away.
EARLY: .Well then, that's how many I If you say so.
BRIAN: ( unconvincingly ) If you say so.
EARLY: Damn right I do.
ON ADELE: Adele watches the tiny down feather drift to the floor.
EARLY: You never killed anyone have you
EARLY: You never even seen anybody killed,
BRIAN: What are you getting at?
EARLY: You wanna tell me how'n the hell you gonna write a book 'bout somethin' you don't know nothin' 'bout? Ya see what I'm sayin'?
EARLY: Ya see what I'm sayin'?
BRIAN: ( nervously mimes the same )
EARLY: ( a nod toward the carry out container ) .watch out for that stuff, it bites.
BRIAN: ( recollecting to himself ) .way too much MSG.
ADELE: Neither makes any attempt at smiling. Adele snaps their photo anyway. In the front seat, she sits quietly for a moment then leans over to Early and whispers something to him.
EARLY: No way. I guarantee you he was breathing when I walked outta there.
EARLY: Hey. Ain't we getting near the next murder site. Bri?
BRIAN: Forget about it, doesn't matter.
EARLY: Hell it don't. .Hand me Brian's map there Adele. One day I'm gonna pass some store and see your book in the window. Me and Adele gonna buy a copy for our coffee table.
NEW ANGLE: Carrie silently fuming in the back seat. Brian stares at the rope that binds his wrists.
EARLY: Figured your hands might be starting to hurt.
EARLY: Let's have a look. You girls coming?
ADELE: Can I just wait here?
EARLY: Don't worry Bri', I'll take the .you stay here with Carrie. You run off. Bri' pays the price. Karma, remember? This is called walk the dog.
ADELE: This is called walk the dog.
CARRIE'S POV: The desolate surrounding landscape, a bright blue sky, the scrubbrush. And no one who can help them. Carrie turns and looks over her shoulder down the hill.
EARLY: So tell me. what happened here?
BRIAN: Two brothers, prospectors, lived here. Up until a few years back.
EARLY: ( coaxing ) They picked up hitchhikers. young men. and brought them back here.
BRIAN: They picked up hitchhikers. young men. and brought them back here.
EARLY: Where'd they do it?
EARLY: Brian stops in his tracks.
EARLY: This ain't going to give me nightmares, is it?
CARRIE'S POV: A distant empty ribbon of road.
ON CARRIE: Her eyes searching for anyone who could help.
BRIAN: .They asked them just before they were executed why they did it. They said "to be famous." Why do you do it?
EARLY: Do what Bri?
BRIAN: We both know you didn't have to kill that gas station attendant.
BRIAN: You wanted to.
BRIAN: It make you feel good? Powerful? Superior, what? Come on Early, tell me something. Were you angry?
BRIAN: ( tentative ) Who are you angry with Early. your mother, your father?
EARLY: You want to know about my daddy, I'll tell you about my daddy, Bri.
CARRIE: Adele, listen to me. Early's sick; he should be in a hospital.
CARRIE: ( shouting over the music ) The police are after him, he's a ( uncertain ) .That's not true.
ADELE: ( uncertain ) .That's not true.
CARRIE: ( shouting ) ( shouting back ) That's not true!
ADELE: ( shouting back ) That's not true!
NEW ANGLE: A POLICE CAR pulls into frame, unnoticed by Carrie and Adele in the background.
MALE OFFICER: Let's take a look.
FEMALE OFFICER: I'll call in the plate.
CARRIE: ( shouting ) .I wouldn't lie to you, Adele. . . I saw him kill that man.
ADELE: ( defensive ) Early didn't kill nobody, he wouldn't do that. I don't know why you're saying those things. You ain't my
ADELE: Please don't say anything Carrie.
FEMALE OFFICER: We got a match, I'll call for back
MALE OFFICER: All right ladies, I want both of you to slowly step away from the ca.
ON BRIAN: He stops at the sight of the wounded Male Officer. Shocked, he watches the man writhing in pain. His hands clutching his crotch. His blood oozes into the dirt. Early approaches the police car. He sees the dead cop and hears the radio dispatcher.
POLICE RADIO: Officer needs help, shots fired, six Adam five, one eighty-seven, suspects wanted in multiple murders. Location unknown, last seen.
EARLY: Tell me that don't hurt.
EARLY: Shoot him. You'll be doing him a
OMITTED: No, no, I can't.
BRIAN: No, no, I can't.
EARLY: ( No, ) It's the answer to all them questions of yers.
EARLY: Now you'll never know.
BRIAN: .Don't do it. Early, look at him, look at his face. That's not your
EARLY: I know that. That there is a policeman in a world of pain. And this is what you call a mercy killin'.
EARLY: I'm still waiting.
EARLY: ( disappointed ) Not so much as a simple "thank you."
ADELE: ( empty ) .thank you.
EARLY: Thank you for what? What are you thanking me for Adele?
ADELE: ( hesitantly, she admits ) .I don't know.
EARLY: Well Adele. it was for. .saving your fucking life back
EARLY: ( gesturing with his fingertips a fraction apart ) Darlin' you were 'bout that far from spendin' the night at the morgue. You understand?
CARRIE: He wasn't going to shoot her, you murdering son of a bitch!
BRIAN: Carrie. stop it.
CARRIE: ( explodes ) What the fuck is wrong with you Brian!? If you'll stop taking notes for once and open your eyes. you'll see that he is a homicidal fucking killer. He is. for real!
BRIAN: Shut up Carrie, please. just shut
OMITTED: Sequence omitted from original script.
ADELE: .I luv' cactuses 'cos they're so strong. Don't need much care really.
BRIAN'S POV: Early steps up to the front door of the house and rings the bell. Carrie stands beside him. A light comes on inside. The door slides open a crack and MRS. MUSGRAVE, an attractive older woman with silver hair, peers out with a puzzled look.
ADELE: ( far away ) .You can forget about 'em forever and then look at 'em and they're doin' even better than before.
BRIAN: ( watching the house ) Adele. we gotta do something before Early kills someone else.
BRIAN'S POV: Of Early and Carrie as they are let into the house.
ADELE: .There ain't nothin' can kill 'em. They can live for two even three hundred years.
BRIAN: Adele for god sake please lis.
ADELE: ( she glances over to Brian ) There ain't nothing we could do. Once Early sets his mind on somethin', well thats the end of that.
MRS. MUSGRAVE: ( to herself ) It's just like in that dream I had. If only I had seen their faces.
ADELE: ( tries to cheer Mrs. Musgrave up ) You've got beautiful cactuses here, I just love 'em. My momma used to keep a garden.
EARLY: What's wrong with her?
ADELE: ( sorry for her ) She had a dream that somethin' like this was gonna happen.
EARLY: I'll bet she did.
EARLY: Where's your husband?
MRS. MUSGRAVE: ( lying ) .I'm a widow.
MR. MUSGRAVE: ( excited ) Is that you Peaches? Come, you must see Saturn tonight. The rings are
EARLY'S POV: Inside of it is a four foot long replica of the first ATOMIC BOMB, "Fat Boy." Faded newspaper articles on the wall indicate Mr. Musgrave had something to do with the bomb's initial construction. An old photo on the bookshelf shows a much younger Mr. Musgrave in a '50's kitchen. He is laughing and embracing a '50's style female mannequin.
OMITTED: THWACK!! The planet turns into a blur of light. then INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME - ON BRIAN AND CARRIE Brian and Carrie are still cuffed to the piano, in the background we see Mrs. Musgrave and Adele looking out the window into the backyard.
BRIAN: ( whispers to Carrie ) You gotta talk to her. She looks up to you, she'll listen to you.
CARRIE: I tried talking to her at the mine. It didn't work.
BRIAN: Then try again, ( it's our only chance. )
ADELE: ( excited ) Early, Mrs. Musgrave has the most beautiful little guest house out back and. well, no one's stayin' in it. it's just empty. And she said if me and you wanted to, well maybe we.
EARLY: ( to Mrs. Musgrave ) Well 'Peaches'. you're a widow
EARLY: ( to Brian ) Have you seen this one? That don't leave much to the imagination now does it?
EARLY: ( smiles and shakes his head in disbelief ) That's you ain't it?
CARRIE: .It is me. Do you like it?
ADELE: Go on now. please.
ADELE: ( in a whisper ) .Call me.
EARLY: Well they say there's room fur all kinds in California. and that's where we're gonna be this time tomorrow. California. Adele honey?
EARLY: ( shouting ) Peaches! Come on back here. There ain't nothin' for you to be afraid
EARLY: ( shouting over the gunfire ) Nobody wants to hurt you Peaches!
ADELE: Early! Stop!!
EARLY: ( perplexed ) Honey. What do you think you're
EARLY: Oh, n'jus what in hell you crying 'bout? I'm the one got hit.
ADELE: I changed my mind, Early. I'm not gonna climb up that Hollywood sign with you. I decided. I think your mean, and you hurt people.
BRIAN: Carrie, watch for Early.
CARRIE: What are you going to do?
BRIAN: I'm going to try and lift the end of the piano. If I can. slide your cuffs free.
CARRIE: What about you?
BRIAN: I don't know.
CARRIE: Can you lift it again? Just lift it,
EARLY: You two been busy in here.
BRIAN: What happened to Adele?
EARLY: Well, let's put it this way. I need me a new woman.
EARLY: Sorry about this Bri.
CARRIE: ( desperate ) Early, don't.
CARRIE: I'll do whatever you want. You want me to go with you, I'll go with you. Just don't kill him.
OMITTED: EXT. MUSGRAVE HOUSE - EARLY MORNING As Early finishes tieing one of the replicant bombs, Little Boy onto the hood. He reaches down and grabs a six pack of beer on the ground and shoves it in the back seat, then slides into the driver's seat next to an anxious Carrie. Carrie is now wearing one of Adele's floral dresses.
EARLY: Think anyone will notice?
EARLY: I'll bet there's a 'door' out there. save us some time.
EARLY: Pass me a beer hon'.
EARLY: You wanna hit me with that, huh?
NEW ANGLE: Carrie reconsiders and sits back in the far corner of the front seat.
CARRIE: ( not looking at him )
EARLY: Stop lyin'. I can see right through
EARLY: Who d'ya think you're foolin'? I know you better than you think.
CARRIE: ( confused ) .You're hurting me.
EARLY: I seen the way you been lookin' at me since we met. Snappin' my photo when you thought I wasn't lookin'. Wanting me.
EARLY: I saw you when I killed that boy.
EARLY: ( whispers ) You were plenty hot.
CARRIE: ( explodes ) You sick twisted fuck! You don't know shit about me.
EARLY: Sick. some people might say takin' photos of me and Adele humpin' in the back of the car is sick.
EARLY: .You know what I mean?
CARRIE: .I know I'd love to smash this bottle right in your fucking face.
EARLY: That's better. Honesty. I like that in a woman.
EARLY: But I'll tell ya. when we get to California, we're gonna have to do something 'bout that gutter mouth of
MRS. MUSGRAVE: He's pulled out all the lines. The nearest phone is twenty miles east of here.
BRIAN: Which way did they go?
MRS. MUSGRAVE: ( pointing ) He took the fire road.
BRIAN: Take your car and get to that phone. Call the police.
NEW ANGLE: Carrie's eyes go to the instrument panel. The temperature gauge is in the red.
EARLY: Come on.
EARLY: Howdy, my name's Early Grayce and this is my girl Carrie. I hope you don't mind us bargin' in like this but a. we was on our way to California when our car broke down,
NEW ANGLE: On a collapsed old wooden sign. It lies on the ground a few feet away from the gate posts.
ON EARLY: Still unable to get the TV to work, he smacks it a good one on the side. With the smack!. Carrie whips her look back toward Early. To find he's lost interest in the TV. He turns toward Carrie. Stares at her for a moment. Then with a hint of a smile, he begins to move toward her. The time has arrived. He reaches down, grabs her by the shirt and pulls her to her feet. Carrie doesn't resist. He's rough with her as he kisses her on the lips. Carrie pulls her mouth away from his. She seems confused, unsure of her feelings. Early watches her, until her eyes come back to his. Then she steps forward crowding her body against his, as she slips one hand around his neck and kisses him deep and hard. Suddenly Early breaks the kiss and backhands Carrie hard across the face. She lands on the floor several feet away, the palm of her right hand is bleeding. Early looks down to his waist to find a large piece of glass protruding from his side. He pulls the glass shard out, blood drips down his side and onto his jeans. Carrie gets up and races into the back bedroom, frantically looking for a way out, there is none. On the bed the two adult mannequins now lie naked. They have been placed, intertwined in a grotesque sexual position. Carrie turns and rushes back toward the door. Early intercepts her and throws a punch to her stomach, which doubles her over. Then Early sends a second punch to her face, she stumbles backward, landing onto the bed amongst the mannequins. Early begins undoing his belt.
EARLY: ( friendly ) You'll like it.
EARLY: Not a lot, but you'll like it.
COMPLETE SILENCE!!!!: The dawn light reveals the devastated '50's house to be one of a cluster, set at the end of a 'Doom Town' cul-de-sac.
EARLY'S POV: A blinding light is shafting through cracks and broken gaps around the front door frame. It looks like a magical "door" shrouded in a wall of light!
ON EARLY: In disbelief he pulls his gaze away from the "door". and sees through a window at the opposite end of the house. the morning sun rising. With that he turns his attention back to the front door!
EARLY: I knew there was doors out here!
EARLY'S POV: A black shadow hurtles toward him out of the brightness. Eventually it blocks out all the light until. WHAAMM!!!!
EARLY'S POV: Brian, silhouetted, steps into the doorway. He holds a shovel raised, ready to deliver a second, fatal blow. but when he sees Early incapacitated on the floor, he lowers the shovel to his side. His handcuffed hands reach down and picks up Early's gun. He trains it on Early, then walks around him to enter the house. Brian's eyes slowly adjust to the interior.
EARLY'S POV: From on his back, Early looks out the open "door." He sees two large shards of glass standing vertical in the sand, reflecting the sun's rays back toward the house. He realizes that the glass, placed there by Brian, is what created the effect of the "door." He starts to laugh.
EARLY: ( laughing ) That was damn tricky of you Bri.
BRIAN: Carrie. Carrie. it's over.
ON BRIAN: He moves into the back bedroom and finds Carrie. She is crouched on the floor, handcuffed to the bedframe. He moves to help her. As he gets closer, he sees her badly bruised face and realizes what's taken place throughout the night. Brian stops. The sympathetic expression on his face changes. With hatred in his eyes, he pivots around, strides out of the bedroom and moves toward the front of the house to Early. in the front room Gun in hand, Brian rushes back into the room. He wields the pistol toward the ground where Early lay. but Early's not there. Brian's eyes dart around the room. then suddenly, from behind him, Early grabs him! He wrenches Brian's head back and whips his belt buckle knife toward his throat! Brian manages to lift his hands to his neck an instant before the knife tears through his flesh. The knife slices a vicious wound across the back of Brian's right hand. He drops the gun to the floor. Brian elbows Early in the ribs and pulls away from him. He reaches to the ground for the gun, but Early kicks him in the stomach and sends him crumbling to his knees.
EARLY: Go ahead Bri, ask me something. You wanna know how I'm feeling'? Well I'd say I'm feelin' pretty damn
EARLY: How 'bout you? You feelin' good?
EARLY: .'Cause you sure don't look so Or maybe you're feelin'. powerful. That it, you feeling powerful? Superior? I know I am.
EARLY: What? Am I angry with my daddy? Now why would I be angry with my daddy. you're the one hit me with the shovel. And you're the one's gonna wish you
EARLY: Hey Bri. I think I need a doctor. What d'ya say?
BRIAN: .Sorry 'bout this Early.
THE END: Writers : Tim Metcalfe
