KLUTE: Klute. With a K. K - L - U -
ROSS: Are you with plant security, Town Police.
KLUTE: ( shakes head ) Town Police.
ROSS: Then how are you involved?
KLUTE: ( slowly ) I know Tom Grunemann.
ROSS: ( shortcutting again ) You knew the subject Thomas Grunemann. How well?
KLUTE: We grew up together. Kids.
ROSS: Can you account for his disappearance in any way?
KLUTE: Did he recently appear to you agitated or depressed? indicates no Did he voice to you grievance or discontent with his research work here? Indicates no. Moral or sexual problems or Marital problems in general? Indicates possibly am I right Everybody's got some, I guess.
ROSS: Did he recently appear to you agitated or depressed? indicates no Did he voice to you grievance or discontent with his research work here? Indicates no. Moral or sexual problems or Marital problems in general? Indicates possibly am I right Everybody's got some, I guess.
KLUTE: Marital problems in general? Indicates possibly am I right Everybody's got some, I guess.
ROSS: Marital problems in general? Indicates possibly am I right Everybody's got some, I guess.
KLUTE: Everybody's got some, I guess.
ROSS: Did he ever mention specifically a girl or woman in New York?
KLUTE: Examine this letter please. We recovered that from the shredder the plant disposal and incinerator system. Grunemann apparently typed it Friday, before he left, decided not to send it, tossed it away. We've already contacted the New York Police; they think they know the girl in C.U. KLUTE Klute reads. We see a controlled incredulity and He never mentioned this type thing to you? You didn't know he had these interests?
ROSS: Examine this letter please. We recovered that from the shredder the plant disposal and incinerator system. Grunemann apparently typed it Friday, before he left, decided not to send it, tossed it away. We've already contacted the New York Police; they think they know the girl in C.U. KLUTE Klute reads. We see a controlled incredulity and He never mentioned this type thing to you? You didn't know he had these interests?
C.U. KLUTE: Klute reads. We see a controlled incredulity and
HOLLY: My husband was not like that! My God, Klute.
KLUTE: It looks like he sent her quite a few of those Holly the girl she recalls six or seven letters No. I mean sure a little rough stuff, but just what people usually No, I would've said we were pretty good. Johnnie I don't understand. I just don't understand. Klute nods. She is talking for both of them. Klute looks out the window to the children playing outside. CAMERA PANS out window to Klute's POV of children playing on a cold winter day. The trees are stripped bare.
HOLLY: ( calmly ) No. I mean sure a little rough stuff, but just what people usually No, I would've said we were pretty good. ( pause ) Johnnie I don't understand. I just don't understand. Klute nods. She is talking for both of them. Klute looks out the window to the children playing outside. CAMERA PANS out window to Klute's POV of children playing on a cold winter day. The trees are stripped bare.
ROSS: has disclosed no evidence of crime or criminal intent within the jurisdiction of this bureau, and since subject Thom
CABLE: ( turns sharply, interrupts ) It's been almost a year! Tom Grunemann's been missing for a year. And all the FBI has to offer is a report that must bore even ( restraint ) Well sir.
ROSS: ( restraint ) Well sir.
STREIGER: Are you closing the case?
ROSS: No sir, we don't state that. We're But you don't find it worth much Well Mr. Cable, you've got me here from the Bureau. You got Lieutenant Trask here from New York representing his department and I don't frankly consider
CABLE: But you don't find it worth much Well Mr. Cable, you've got me here from the Bureau. You got Lieutenant Trask here from New York representing his department and I don't frankly consider
ROSS: ( injured dignity ) Well Mr. Cable, you've got me here from the Bureau. You got Lieutenant Trask here from New York representing his department and I don't frankly consider
STREIGER: ( moderating, suggesting ) Why couldn't you ever find out anything from the girl?
ROSS: ( refers the question ) ( summarizes from notes ) We first hold her under surveillance expectin your boy Grunemann to show up there. Didn't. Then we bagged we arrested her on a CP charge, convicted, two month's women's city prison, offer to reduce sentence, she cooperated. ( counts ) Four interrogations. She thought she remembered Grunemann from those letters from before, she made that connection but she hadn't seen him since and couldn't identify his photograph and she
TRASK: ( summarizes from notes ) We first hold her under surveillance expectin your boy Grunemann to show up there. Didn't. Then we bagged we arrested her on a CP charge, convicted, two month's women's city prison, offer to reduce sentence, she cooperated. ( counts ) Four interrogations. She thought she remembered Grunemann from those letters from before, she made that connection but she hadn't seen him since and couldn't identify his photograph and she
STREIGER: Why not?
TRASK: Oh a good call girl, she'll turn six-seven hundred tricks a year. The faces get blurred. And since then, recent months, she's reported several, you know, incidents: like breather calls, anonymous phone calls, also somebody maybe following her, watching her, things like that. So it's I guess you could say, conceivable Grunemann's still around there, just hangin around her, spooking her. But you know, He shakes his head, gestures doubtingly. Ross caps The subject got emotionallv disturbed; he just dropped out. There's thousands.
ROSS: The subject got emotionallv disturbed; he just dropped out. There's thousands.
STREIGER: Inspector we understand your position; ours is a little different. We have an investment in Tom Grunemann. The Company has an investment, and we feel entitled to investigate for ourselves.
ROSS: Private investigation, you mean. Yes sir, of course you're entitled, and there's some very competent
STREIGER: Klute offered us his services; we've accepted. Pause. Ross and Trask look at Klute - more than a bit startled - then at each other. Klute just looks Klute knew Tom. He has a great many ideas about the case
ROSS: ( sourly ) Yes sir, we know he
STREIGER: We'd expect him to work in cooperation with you. He'd report to each of you and to our Company's New York office, to Pete Pete goes there on a regular schedule back and forth, and
ROSS: ( tactfully ) Mr. Streiger, speaking frankly we've appreciated the Sergeant's interest you know, all along. Here, locally. But New York, that's - ( to Klute, leniently ) Ever done any missing person's Spent much time in the city? ( to others ) You see, I have to wonder speaking frankly; the Sergeant knows I'm only speaking frankly -
TRASK: ( to Klute, leniently ) Ever done any missing person's Spent much time in the city? ( to others ) You see, I have to wonder speaking frankly; the Sergeant knows I'm only speaking frankly -
ROSS: Spent much time in the city? You see, I have to wonder speaking frankly; the Sergeant knows I'm only speaking frankly -
CABLE: You wonder why we thought of Klute? Frankly? He's interested.
BREE: Strangle him to death funny?
DIRECTOR: Well we go from this into stomach diagrams. It can't be too look let's try it again from - but then he glances at his watch, and at the others waiting their turn.
BREE: Bree Daniel, any messages? OK, thanks. She waits for a moment. Then makes a curious, small gesture of her hand deposits another dime, dials again, is answered.
BREE: He mumbles some kind of greeting, steps back. She pauses a moment in the door ( casing, instantly ) then quite confident, friendly, provocative all at and CUT TO
BREE: Lover, that's got to be a little extra. I mean it sounds very exciting, what you speak of, you've got me all excited. But something special like that, you know it's got to cost a little more, mm? and CUT TO
1ST ANNC'R: ( energetic ) R - W - M, radio's voice is the Shippensburg Valley, on a beautiful clear warm Thurs ( rural ) Tucky Wonder Beans picking up a half cent over yesterday's price at- and CUT TO
2ND ANNC'R: ( rural ) Tucky Wonder Beans picking up a half cent over yesterday's price at- and CUT TO
BREE: Oh lover, oh it's too much oh you thrill me yes, like that, it's oh it's beautiful, oh and at the same time refers privately to her wristwatch. And CUT TO
KLUTE'S CAR: As Klute's car drives onto the turnpike surrounded by green country, we ZOOM into a close shot of Klute through the windshield of his car. And then in what seems like a continuous shot we ZOOM back to a wide angle revealing Klute caught in the endless line of cars in a typical traffic jam at the entrance to New York City, surrounded by smoggy, grey, urban skies.
TO: EXT. EMPTY STREET: KLUTE - NIGHT Klute walks, as before, carrying his suitcase. We see him slow, concernedly looking toward
BREE: ( through door, curtly ) What is it?
BREE: ( through door, curtly ) What is it?
BREE: What about?
KLUTE: My name's John Klute.
BREE: You said that.
KLUTE: I'm an investigator. I'd like to ask you some questions about Tom She tightens again.
BREE: Tom Grunemann. He wrote you some He was a research engineer at the Tuscarora Laboratories in Pennsylvania. He disappeared from there last April. I've been hired to look for him.
KLUTE: Tom Grunemann. He wrote you some He was a research engineer at the Tuscarora Laboratories in Pennsylvania. He disappeared from there last April. I've been hired to look for him.
BREE: ( innocently ) He was a research engineer at the Tuscarora Laboratories in Pennsylvania. He disappeared from there last April. I've been hired to look for him.
KLUTE: He was a research engineer at the Tuscarora Laboratories in Pennsylvania. He disappeared from there last April. I've been hired to look for him.
BREE: You know what I'm talking about. Miss Daniel.
KLUTE: You know what I'm talking about. Miss Daniel.
BREE: Will you let me ask you some Dew yew hayuv ah-dentifikyshun? He takes out a folded letter and a wallet and passes them both through to her. Silence. She examines them with care, then appears to soften a little; even smiles slightly.
KLUTE: Will you let me ask you some Dew yew hayuv ah-dentifikyshun? He takes out a folded letter and a wallet and passes them both through to her. Silence. She examines them with care, then appears to soften a little; even smiles slightly.
BREE: ( gumbo-southern ) Dew yew hayuv ah-dentifikyshun? He takes out a folded letter and a wallet and passes them both through to her. Silence. She examines them with care, then appears to soften a little; even smiles slightly.
KLUTE: And you just want to ask me a few She smiles again, hands the letter and wallet back out, closes the door ( doesn't slam, just closes ). Klute looks at it blankly for a time, starts to knock again, decides not to turns and descends the stairs.
BREE: And you just want to ask me a few She smiles again, hands the letter and wallet back out, closes the door ( doesn't slam, just closes ). Klute looks at it blankly for a time, starts to knock again, decides not to turns and descends the stairs.
KLUTE: She smiles again, hands the letter and wallet back out, closes the door ( doesn't slam, just closes ). Klute looks at it blankly for a time, starts to knock again, decides not to turns and descends the stairs.
BREE: Bree listens through the door to his departing foot steps. They fade from hearing. She hastens to assemble her properties.
BREE: and I take acting classes with Lee Tainter
AGENT: Lee, yes
BREE: and I was in two of his workshop type productions, Uncle Vanya and the girl in Five Characters ( indicates picture ) here and then of course I have the modeling and the demonstrator work, the trade-fair work but naturally I feel ready for something more, well you know, Well, thanks very much for coming She starts for the door he's already turning away then ducks back, hands him one of her Glossies, laughing prettily at her own ( beautifully the business ) Thank you very much.
AGENT: Well, thanks very much for coming She starts for the door he's already turning away then ducks back, hands him one of her Glossies, laughing prettily at her own Thank you very much.
BREE: ( beautifully the business ) Thank you very much.
KLUTE: That's a lot of people to die Unknown, unidentified and unwanted. And there's more every day man, there's more everyday. As KLUTE slowly walks away we bring in TELEPHONE RING and BREE VOICE, OVER answering.
TRASK: Unknown, unidentified and unwanted. And there's more every day man, there's more everyday. As KLUTE slowly walks away we bring in TELEPHONE RING and BREE VOICE, OVER answering.
BREE VOICE: Bree Daniel. Yeah, hi hon.
BREE: Oh hon, I just don't know. I'm trying to stay out of it.
GIRL'S VOICE: comes in with these other yulds maybe two or three times a year, and five big ones baby, just one Marta, thanks, and I'd love to party with you hon, but Klute sets down the headset ( we drop the VOICES far under, INDISTINGUISHABLE ), makes a note, and thumbs open the box of a fresh reel; the present reel is near the end. We establish a pile of ALREADY RECORDED TAPES. We CUT BACK TO
BREE VOICE: Marta, thanks, and I'd love to party with you hon, but Klute sets down the headset ( we drop the VOICES far under, INDISTINGUISHABLE ), makes a note, and thumbs open the box of a fresh reel; the present reel is near the end. We establish a pile of ALREADY RECORDED TAPES. We CUT BACK TO
BREE: Well try to get someone else Marty and if I change my mind sure hon, bye. She hangs up, starts away. The PHONE RINGS AGAIN. She tries to ignore it. It persists. She finally turns back to answer it, and we CUT TO
BREE VOICE: Bree Daniel
MAN'S VOICE: Oh God baby, oh God I really love That's nice; who is this?
BREE VOICE: That's nice; who is this?
MAN'S VOICE: I really love you baby, you know A CLICK, and the MAN'S VOICE CONTINUING, trailing into helpless sobs
BREE VOICE: Bree Daniel.
BREE VOICE: Oh yeah, hi Frank, sure.
BREE VOICE: Well Frank that's awful nice but I'm out of action, sort of, you We FADE THIS CONVERSATION UNDER BUT HOLD, CONTINUING, as BREE PASSES CAMERA and we PAN TO SHOT OF KLUTE, at corner, unseen by her and apparently in surveillance of her. Then he too turns out of frame, and we CUT TO
BREE'S POV: A sea of staring faces revolves around her. We cross fade with SPANGLER VOICE OVER ( as if recalling a case record ).
SPANGLER: Usual case history this isn't a medical confidence, it's all of them broken family, lonely, confused, crummy childhood, early promiscuity, formal prostitution beginning in her teens, income twenty-five to thirty thousand a ( notes Klute's reaction ) Oh they don't keep the money: they get rid of it, they get pimps. Why? ( stabs at record ) Why do you want to know all this?
KLUTE: I want to know how Tom Grunemann got mixed up in it.
SPANGLER: Not unusual.
KLUTE: Did she talk about him to you?
SPANGLER: About his letters that's all she remembered. Quite violent material, I'd say, obsessive, a quite sick man. But that's not unusual either.
KLUTE: Has she talked with you since No. She had every good intention of it coming to me as a private patient, getting out of the life, devoting herself to an acting I think she's trying that.
SPANGLER: No. She had every good intention of it coming to me as a private patient, getting out of the life, devoting herself to an acting I think she's trying that.
KLUTE: I think she's trying that.
SPANGLER: Oh sure they try. The idea of a better life. But they don't really know much about life: They get confused or scared or frustrated or bored they pop back to the one thing they can handle. The trick. The trick. Men in bed. Not men in general, not life, not love, not even real sex it avoids all that. Just the trick, the transaction.
MAN: ( tapping her ) We had a bet on - if you were real or not. I won. She looks at him in disgust and crosses to phone INT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY ( on phone ) INT. CHURCH DISCOTHEQUE - NIGHT We are in the interior of what was once a church and is now a discotheque. Interior is painted purple; the record player stands on the altar over the crowd. Pews are massed around the dance floor. Stained glass windows are lighted from behind and are circled with light bulbs that flash on and off. For all of its obviously bizarre visual quality, there is a sense of relaxation. It is a late night gathering place of many who belong to the sexual underworld of the city. BREE and the OTHER GIRL advance to a pew. A MAN sitting there ( the other girl's pimp ) with a THIRD GIRL. BREE's companion greet him shyly, tenderly: she and BREE sit down, join in conversation. PULL BACK SLOWLY other pews, other girls and a few men, the sisterhood To
BREE: ( on phone ) INT. CHURCH DISCOTHEQUE - NIGHT We are in the interior of what was once a church and is now a discotheque. Interior is painted purple; the record player stands on the altar over the crowd. Pews are massed around the dance floor. Stained glass windows are lighted from behind and are circled with light bulbs that flash on and off. For all of its obviously bizarre visual quality, there is a sense of relaxation. It is a late night gathering place of many who belong to the sexual underworld of the city. BREE and the OTHER GIRL advance to a pew. A MAN sitting there ( the other girl's pimp ) with a THIRD GIRL. BREE's companion greet him shyly, tenderly: she and BREE sit down, join in conversation. PULL BACK SLOWLY other pews, other girls and a few men, the sisterhood To
BREE: Hi. Bree. Hi. Well I could come over tonight - if you'd like if there's no one else. I really want to just talk to you.
BREE: Hi? -_
MR. FABER: Good material, not too good cut. I'd do better for you. Then he turns, lifts down a WOMAN'S DRESS CAPE, carrying it graciously gestures her to precede CORNER OF CUTTING ROOM A dim pool of light here. A private area here, sectioned off by rows of garments. A couch, rug, coffee table, a chair or two a place for Buyers to take their ease. BREE and MR. FABER enter. Her manner is suddenly elegant, assured, regal; his befits a man of the world. He fits the cloak around her shoulders and gestures to the couch; she sits. He pours a glass of wine for her, for himself. She speaks with a neat continental accent doing it fairly well, really a member of the international set.
BREE: Oh thank you. He sits in the chair opposite, sips his wine.
MR. FABER: ( then ) ( diffident ) It's good to see you. Well could we do it first and then just talk?
BREE: ( diffident ) It's good to see you. Well could we do it first and then just talk?
MR. FABER: Sure dear, yes.
BREE: Well well I'm just back. And I must tell you something quite And Cannes was quite fun, quite; and we played baccarat and chemindefer and there was a nice little Italian marquis quite enthusiastic for me but a young man can be so silly
MR. FABER: ( intently ) And Cannes was quite fun, quite; and we played baccarat and chemindefer and there was a nice little Italian marquis quite enthusiastic for me but a young man can be so silly
BREE: And Cannes was quite fun, quite; and we played baccarat and chemindefer and there was a nice little Italian marquis quite enthusiastic for me but a young man can be so silly
MR. FABER: And then one night at the gaming tables well I just saw him. A stranger looking at me and I knew suddenly that all my life I'd She hesitates strangely, her fingers at the neck of the cape. Faintly
BREE: And then one night at the gaming tables well I just saw him. A stranger looking at me and I knew suddenly that all my life I'd She hesitates strangely, her fingers at the neck of the cape. Faintly
MR. FABER: ( quickly ) She stands, unloosing the cloak, letting it fall on the couch. But she doesn't sit again begins to move here and there about the enclosure, her hands wandering about her dress and body an erotic Not young; he wasn't young gray at the temples, he well actually he looked like you.
BREE: Not young; he wasn't young gray at the temples, he well actually he looked like you.
MR. FABER: ( tensely ) And nobody could tell me who he was an exiled prince or a mercenary or a bullfighter or but I felt it stirring inside me, this this wild, pagan feeling
BREE: And nobody could tell me who he was an exiled prince or a mercenary or a bullfighter or but I felt it stirring inside me, this this wild, pagan feeling
BREE: And next day at the beach our beach pavilion I saw him again, his eyes burning into me. I was helpless. Without his even speaking to me, without his even touching, I knew that somehow somehow She casts away an accessory garment. Mr. Faber burns her with his eyes
KLUTE: Klute watches in that direction a moment longer. In his expression a certain curiosity a prurience but rather more strongly, disappointment, a measure of disgust. Not his affair. He turns away from it, into camera, and
BREE: Whyn't you just cut out? We WIDEN TO INCLUDE KLUTE. Now she begins to get it. He turns, opens door to his room below. She comes slowly down steps.
BREE: Oh you bastard. But then she adjusts a frightened but matter-of fact hooker
KLUTE: No, I'm look
BREE: ( vehemently again ) If I was taking calls full time would I be living in this kip? I'd be back on Park Avenue; I could support the whole National Guard!
KLUTE: ( gestures upward ) Could I ask some questions?
BREE: Or you'll get me shoved back in the brig you mean; another month with the bull-dykes. She seems to have expressed it; the balance of power. She turns, goes out, heads upstairs. Klute unhurriedly takes up his folder of notes, then INT. BREE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Bree disposes her belongings. Klute moves to table. There is a group of plants on the table that long since died of neglect. He notices them and the disorganization of the room without comment, opens his folder, rummages for the photographs. Then, Look, I told the police everything: I don't even remember the schlub! Klute doesn't respond. Klute sets out a photograph for her to look at.
BREE: Look, I told the police everything: I don't even remember the schlub! Klute doesn't respond. Klute sets out a photograph for her to look at.
KLUTE, BREE: They showed me that one. I understand it's Grunemann, but I told them, I just don't remember. Klute tosses down a second photograph.
BREE: They showed me that one. I understand it's Grunemann, but I told them, I just don't remember. Klute tosses down a second photograph.
BREE, KLUTE: ( cool ) A family sort of man. Klute grunts, meaning 'yes'. She echoes his grunt, meaning we don't know what. He tosses another
BREE: ( cool ) A family sort of man. Klute grunts, meaning 'yes'. She echoes his grunt, meaning we don't know what. He tosses another
KLUTE, BREE: She looks at the picture briefly, at him
KLUTE: Company outing or picnic or something like that.
BREE: Isn't that sweet. Well it could be any one of them bubi; I get to see them all. She separates from Klute, around the table ( but remains standing, restless ). Klute puts photo aside, prepares to take notes, as she pleads
KLUTE: All right, yes, I had been. Those sick, wild letters I'm watching you, gonna follow you, gonna punish you, kill you et cetera. Well, they said, all right that's Grunemann. So try to remember when you and he - when well I don't know, there was that dumper once, he sounded like that dumper Dumpers; they get their kicks beating you up. A man hired me once, then tried to really kill me - that'd be about two years ago. Without warning she wheels to the open windows, and shouts out full-voiced both startling and somewhat intriguing Klute
BREE: All right, yes, I had been. Those sick, wild letters I'm watching you, gonna follow you, gonna punish you, kill you et cetera. Well, they said, all right that's Grunemann. So try to remember when you and he - when well I don't know, there was that dumper once, he sounded like that dumper Dumpers; they get their kicks beating you up. A man hired me once, then tried to really kill me - that'd be about two years ago. Without warning she wheels to the open windows, and shouts out full-voiced both startling and somewhat intriguing Klute
KLUTE: ( then ) What do you remember about that Nothing. Except he wasn't kidding. Usually it's a fakeout, you probably know. They pretend to tie you up, and you wear a dress with a cloth belt and they pretend to whip you or you ( beat ) Hell it's their money. I'll hang from the shower rod and whistle Maytime. Except this guy was really tripped out on it; he
BREE: Nothing. Except he wasn't kidding. Usually it's a fakeout, you probably know. They pretend to tie you up, and you wear a dress with a cloth belt and they pretend to whip you or you Hell it's their money. I'll hang from the shower rod and whistle Maytime. Except this guy was really tripped out on it; he
KLUTE: But you can't say that Dumper was Tom Grunemann.
BREE: I can't say he was anybody! A brief pause. Klute sorts his notes. She may take it that he's packing to leave hopes so anyhow. For an instant we see the undefended girl So OK that's all? Then again she changes manner remembering a practical problem, approaching it as a matter-of fact hooker.
KLUTE: What about everything since? She draws back again. Up to now she's been reasonably on top of things. Starting now we see her driven toward the things she'd really rather not talk about and increasingly more shaken.
BREE: Just phone calls, right? They ring, you answer, they don't say anything, just blank. Kids getting kicks. Burglars looking for an empty apartment. I mean there is nothing that proves
KLUTE: What about the other things you've being followed on the
BREE: ( interrupts awkwardly ) Look I'm sorry I've led everybody wrong. I mean yes, I get those feelings, but that's just me, that's just feelings. ( beat ) I'm sure this will amuse you; I'm scared of the dark. And sometimes I get shook up, I hear people or well, I'll come out in the morning and think someone's been prying at my mailbox, or there's a little trash outside my door and I wonder if someone left it there for do you see? things other people wouldn't even notice. Well that's not real, it's just nerves; it's got nothing to do The PHONE RINGS. She startles. Then approaches with some difficulty but then answers with complete calm in her Smith-girl voice.
KLUTE: Is that how you get most of your dates? Someone gives your name to someone else?
BREE: Most of them.
KLUTE: Is that how you met the Dumper? Someone else gave
BREE: How would I remember?
KLUTE: How else do you meet them? Pimps?
BREE: ( patient ) You're very square. Pimps don't get you dates, cookie; they just take the money. Klute takes up the slip of paper previously given him by Trask. In the same manner as before
KLUTE: I have some names the police gave me. Frank Ligourin. Will you tell me what
BREE: ( trembling ) Look, I'm sure this'll amuse you too. Ilia trying to get away from all that.
KLUTE: What about the old gentleman the other night, Mr. Faber? She freezes again, looking at him. Then savagely
BREE: You saw that, goddamn you? You saw it? He's seventy. His wife's dead. He started cutting garments at fourteen. His whole life, he's maybe had a week's vacation, I'm all he has and he never, never touches me, and what harm in it, She chokes then goes on
KLUTE: ( under )
OK: You want to wear women's clothes, or you get off ripping She grabs up the company picture, raging on
BREE: You want to wear women's clothes, or you get off ripping She grabs up the company picture, raging on
KLUTE: Something in his inflection very slight cautions her. She falls silent as suddenly as she began. Then cheerfully
BREE: Gee I hope this doesn't make my cold any worse.
KLUTE: Tell me about Frank Ligourin.
BREE: ( casual, pleasant ) Mm? Oh, he was my old man. We broke She wanders away toward a bureau. Her shirt seems to itch her; she scratches her ribs. Then opens drawer, takes out a different shirt as
KLUTE: ( beat ) When did you and Ligourin break up? She pulls off her shirt, unhooks her brassiere and discards it, apparently quite unselfconscious. Klute reacts; then, carefully maintaining his cool
BREE: What? This?
KLUTE: ( ingenuously ) I thought you could trick me for those tapes. Don't you get lonely in that little green room? Or let me get you someone; I have terrific friends, wild.
OK?: ( ingenuously ) I thought you could trick me for those tapes. Don't you get lonely in that little green room? Or let me get you someone; I have terrific friends, wild.
BREE: ( ingenuously ) I thought you could trick me for those tapes. Don't you get lonely in that little green room? Or let me get you someone; I have terrific friends, wild.
KLUTE: No thanks. At this point or about this point Klute takes note of something. A little above her. He grows more watchful, but containing it carefully. We don't understand the change in his manner or even notice; she doesn't. In mock dismay
BREE: Gee. I've had men pay two hundred dollars for me here, you're turning down a freebie. You can get a perfectly good dishwasher for that. He has risen, is approaching her slowly carrying his notes as if to check something. She is hopeful You've changed your mind? You do want to play?
KLUTE: ( quietly, steadily ) I don't want you to look up. There's someone on the skylight. She gasps, terrified immediately almost beyond control. He taps the pencil on his notes.
BREE: ( manages, barely ) I go on rounds.
KLUTE: Rounds, what are they? don't watch me, keep talking.
BREE: You go see agents or Equity calls, open casting calls. And ad agencies commercials you don't get work, you just go around. Klute has strolled out of view from above instantly flattens himself against the wall, eases the door open, about to slip and charge. As Bree labors on
KLUTE: I couldn't get him. He sees her condition. Gently
BREE: Well do you think it was him?
KLUTE: What do you think?
BREE: Can't you get him?
KLUTE: Maybe, if you tell me the things you haven't.
BREE: ( pause ) You asked me where I got that date with the dumper Frank sent me on Do you know where he got the He never told me.
KLUTE: Do you know where he got the He never told me.
BREE: He never told me.
KLUTE: Well, let's go down and ask him.
DAY: The DOORMAN hangs up the brass house-phone, smiles and gestures them graciously into the ( self service ) ELEVATOR. We see Klute without making too much of it taking in the mirrors and marble INT. ELEVATOR ( MOVING ): KLUTE, BREE She breaks the silence.
BREE: What did you expect? Frankie still has a good string, three girls. Figure three hundred a week from Is that what you gave him? INT. LIGOURIN'S APARTMENT: ON DOOR - DAY The BUZZER sounding, FRANK LIGOURIN crossing to open the door for BREE, KLUTE. Cheerful, hospitable, nice, unpretentious.
KLUTE: Is that what you gave him? INT. LIGOURIN'S APARTMENT: ON DOOR - DAY The BUZZER sounding, FRANK LIGOURIN crossing to open the door for BREE, KLUTE. Cheerful, hospitable, nice, unpretentious.
FRANK: Bree hi come in, come in. The point of this one brief shot Bree's face in the instant after Frank has spoken and before she enters, with Klute following. Her half-second of hesitation. This is someone who gets to her somehow probably always will.
BREE: Frank Klute.
FRANK: ( shakes hands ) Hi. Come in. ( leads them in, indicating table ) I was just catching up some work mocking up the photographs. ( to Klute ) I used to be a photographer myself - Bree tell you? Before I got in the publishing.
BREE: Frank, he knows you're a pimp. He knows you were my pimp. Short silence. Then with the tact of a gentleman dealing with rude, difficult woman
FRANK: Well Bree, maybe you'd rather He gestures gently to indicate outside. She nods once. He escorts her in that direction, OUT the door, closing it behind them.
FRANK: How's it been? She shrugs a shoulder at him, looks away. He goes on in the same quiet voice.
BREE: Yeah Frank, I know that. She yanks at the elevator doors. But the elevator's not here yet. She turns away sharply into the door marked "Stairway". He turns back to his apartment.
FRANK: I've always respected Bree. I'd like to make something clear.
KLUTE: I've just got a few
FRANK: I'd like to make something clear. I don't go after a girl; a girl comes to me. Her choice. Right? He gestures Klute to one chair, sits in another, waits calmly, attentively.
KLUTE: I'm looking for a man. Tom Bree thinks he may have been the dumper that call she had two years ago. She says you sent her on Two years ago? Sorry.
FRANK: Two years ago? Sorry.
KLUTE: They tell me you use narcotics. Could I bring someone around to look at your arms?
FRANK: Look dad I may stand better with the cops than you. Klute waits.
KLUTE: She told me.
FRANK: OK and one of them Jane McKenna she blows a little jealous of Bree - you know? Bree comes first? And evidently she knew the freak - that he was a dumper she conned me into passing him to Bree, you know, so Bree'd get hurt. I didn't know. Till afterwards.
KLUTE: Why didn't you tell Bree, You don't tell them. That one of their own in-laws laid a dumper on Peace in the family. Beyond that, I don't know. All she I'd like to talk with Jane McKenna.
FRANK: ( a little shocked ) You don't tell them. That one of their own in-laws laid a dumper on ( shakes head ) Peace in the family. ( pause ) Beyond that, I don't know. All she I'd like to talk with Jane McKenna.
KLUTE: I'd like to talk with Jane McKenna.
FRANK: ( smiles ) Would I be telling you all this? She copped out long ago. She committed suicide Baxter.
BREE: Did you like my friend Frankie?
KLUTE: Didn't he tell you what you wanted?
BREE: Didn't he tell you what you wanted?
KLUTE: It didn't go anywhere. But that's not why
BREE: About the dumper, didn't he tell you that?
KLUTE: It was Jane McKenna who sent you the dumper.
BREE: ( coldly ) Well she's dead. At the corner he slows, starts unzipping his bookcase as if indicating a change of route.
KLUTE: ( he shakes his head ) You said you wanted these. He hands over the TAPE-REELS.
BREE: Oh golly, oh just what I've always dreamed of, dirty phone calls. How come?
KLUTE: You told me what you could. I guess I'm through with your part of it.
BREE: ( grudgingly ) Is there anything more I could
KLUTE: I don't see anything, do you?
BREE: What're you gonna do next?
KLUTE: Try some other ways.
BREE: What do I do meanwhile? wait for that clown to fall through the skylight on me?
KLUTE: And I don't think that was Tom.
BREE: You said it was!
KLUTE: No, I said what did you think.
BREE: Oh wait oh I get it. You said that just to keep me scared. So I'd tell you everything I oh clever; oh you smart, tricky hick.
KLUTE: ( harshly ) Hey, but did we get to you, Klute? A little?
BREE: ( harshly ) Hey, but did we get to you, Klute? A little?
KLUTE: Yeah, you got to me.
BREE: Us city folks? The sin, the glitter, the wickedness?
KLUTE: Oh. No. Not that way. I'd say it was more I don't know too bad? Pathetic?
BREE: She turns smartly away, deposits the tapes in passing in a litter box, departs. Klute looks after her for a moment, then turns on his way. Then
BREE: What the hell do you mean, She walks in past him, sits down on the edge of his It's kind of late.
KLUTE: It's kind of late.
BREE: It got lonely upstairs. There's someone on the roof. He takes her seriously, starts to move.
KLUTE: Not much point to this, is there?
BREE: ( placidly ) Ezra, I'm lots better than you're used to. Tell me the other night, watching me with Mr. Faber wasn't your tongue a little bit hanging out?
KLUTE: So you're not too different from him, or the chap on the roof, or He starts for the bed, as if to lift her onto her feet. She takes off her robe and swings her legs up, and under the sheet.
BREE: So you're not too different from him, or the chap on the roof, or He starts for the bed, as if to lift her onto her feet. She takes off her robe and swings her legs up, and under the sheet.
KLUTE: Bree thanks I don't want to.
BREE: Oh don't be all hypocrite. Or do you really like other kicks? Is it more just having power over someone? so you don't really need to He tries to rebutton the pajama shirt. She catches his hand, thrusts it underneath. In grief and anger
QUICK: UPSHOT, C.U. Their bodies lock together descending toward camera
DISSOLVE: UPSHOT, C.U. Their bodies lock together descending toward camera
DISSOLVE: DOWNSHOT, C.U. SAME ACTION Her hands slide about his shoulders. She is laughing softly, affectionately, mockingly
BREE: I knew it, I knew it, a killer.
DISSOLVE: C.U., HER FACE triumphantly, contemptuously, orgiastically
BREE: Oh lover oh you thrill me oh, it's beautiful oh yes, yes oh like that, like that, yes
DISSOLVE: Klute gasps deeply entering orgasm. As soon as she hears it, judges it, she drops her hands from his shoulders, stills her own movements, lies utterly passive, smiling calmly, letting him finish for himself. He can't stop cries out cries out again, burying his face against her is done. Then he slowly raises up, shuddering, looking down at her. He knows what she's done to him, is helpless to do anything back. He rolls slowly out of the embrace of her legs and lies silently looking upward, very much as we saw him at start of FAVORIVG BREE She waits, still smiling, for a while. But she's not done with him yet. She rolls to lie with her upper body on his, trailing her fingers across his face. Affectionately, as a good whore
FACES: Klute gasps deeply entering orgasm. As soon as she hears it, judges it, she drops her hands from his shoulders, stills her own movements, lies utterly passive, smiling calmly, letting him finish for himself. He can't stop cries out cries out again, burying his face against her is done. Then he slowly raises up, shuddering, looking down at her. He knows what she's done to him, is helpless to do anything back. He rolls slowly out of the embrace of her legs and lies silently looking upward, very much as we saw him at start of FAVORIVG BREE She waits, still smiling, for a while. But she's not done with him yet. She rolls to lie with her upper body on his, trailing her fingers across his face. Affectionately, as a good whore
FAVORIVG BREE: She waits, still smiling, for a while. But she's not done with him yet. She rolls to lie with her upper body on his, trailing her fingers across his face. Affectionately, as a good whore
KLUTE: Well what're you down about? You mean because you didn't get me You can't expect that. I mean Frank, yes, he'd get me there all the time but never with a John. She sits up, gropes her pajamas from the floor, puts them on. In the same fond tone
BREE: Well what're you down about? You mean because you didn't get me You can't expect that. I mean Frank, yes, he'd get me there all the time but never with a John. She sits up, gropes her pajamas from the floor, puts them on. In the same fond tone
BREE: CLOSER, ONSTAGE The others stand rigid as statues, facing dead front an experimental drama, clearly all holding scripts, as Bree hastens from one to another, fiercely, imploringly
CLOSER, ONSTAGE: The others stand rigid as statues, facing dead front an experimental drama, clearly all holding scripts, as Bree hastens from one to another, fiercely, imploringly
JANG: ( loudly, cheerfully ) Thank you very much. All break posture, start offstage, while Bree, caught in mid-stride, clowns it a little.
BREE: gug gug then toward Jang, a bit succinctly, indicating Why? I want to know what.
JANG: ( laughs tolerantly ) No, that was very good everybody. Do we have all your resumes?
PRODUCER: ( from list ) Booth Osman Zuff Anjeris WIDER, near stage front. Bree shrugs, steps down off stage with the others. Bree finds Jang's hand out for her script, smiles wanly, turns it over, continues on out of scene. She finds something - someone impeding her way. Looks up.
KLUTE: You asked if there was anything more you could help me with.
BREE: Pause. Impasse.
KLUTE: I've checked the records of Jane McKenna's death I can't get anything special. But Frank Ligourin had another girl you said, besides McKenna and you.
BREE: Arlyn Page.
KLUTE: Did she and Jane McKenna know each Frankie kept them in the same apartment: it cut his travel-time.
BREE: Frankie kept them in the same apartment: it cut his travel-time.
KLUTE: Then maybe Arlyn Page knew the Dumper too.
BREE: Arlyn had a very big habit - heroin - she's the one who started Frank. She's strung out now; you won't find her.
KLUTE: You could help me find her. You know the people. I'll pay you a hundred dollars.
BREE: I can make that in a lunch break! Look, Hiram, you're sure it isn't just me? you decided you liked it, after all, the other night; you'll hang around for seconds?
KLUTE: Don't worry. She examines him shrugs turns, proceeds along the sidewalk, Klute accompanying
BREE: Joanie Mike, hi Hi Pat.
PAT: ( giggles ) Hey Bree honey, who you got?
BREE: A new daddy. I'n he cute? Bree leads on to where
TRINA: Oh yes Mr. Klute won't you both join me? And how do you like our fair city? There's so much here don't you think? The museums and the books and the foreign films Bree, have you seen the Godard film?
BREE: Uh uh.
TRINA: Oh you've got to. He does such fun things with imagery. And I've been reading The Fall The Fall by Ahlbair Camoo it's the same thing, you know the Trina honey, he just wants to find Arlyn Page. Trina undergoes a change of demeanor. Flatly
BREE: ( patiently ) Trina honey, he just wants to find Arlyn Page. Trina undergoes a change of demeanor. Flatly
TRINA: Why? She's a junkie.
BREE: ( prods gently ) She was with you after she left Well she's not now. ( then quavering ) I did everything for Arlyn. I loved Arlyn I took her right into my apartment, my own sweet apartment on First. But she wouldn't stay off it the junk and I wept and I pleaded and I held her in my arms - and she started taking things, my things, and selling them for horse. My clothes. We could've had everything together, everything and then the bitch sold my mink!
TRINA: Well she's not now. I did everything for Arlyn. I loved Arlyn I took her right into my apartment, my own sweet apartment on First. But she wouldn't stay off it the junk and I wept and I pleaded and I held her in my arms - and she started taking things, my things, and selling them for horse. My clothes. We could've had everything together, everything and then the bitch sold my mink!
FIRST GIRL: Arlyn Page?
SECOND GIRL: You'll never catch up; she's grooved out.
BREE: The pimp looks distrustfully at Klute who reassures
KLUTE: I'm not looking for her personally - someone she might know about.
PIMP: ( shrugs; to Bree ) Try Janie Dale.
JANIE DALE: ( to girl on couch ) It's old Mr. Clean from Cleveland. He wants to know when he can fly in and clean up the apartment and see you. I told him I have all the cleaning equipment and that he can come anytime, but it's up to you. GIRL on couch rises.
GIRL: You know he wants us to be Tell him that he'd better have his ass in here by one o'clock on Monday afternoon or you won't let him clean the bathroom floor, and tell him the price has gone up twenty bucks Old Dutcn Cleanser's not as cheap as it used to be. She shrugs and turns to KLUTE & BREE.
JANIE DALE: Tell him that he'd better have his ass in here by one o'clock on Monday afternoon or you won't let him clean the bathroom floor, and tell him the price has gone up twenty bucks Old Dutcn Cleanser's not as cheap as it used to be. She shrugs and turns to KLUTE & BREE.
KLUTE: Do you know where she went?
JANIE DALE: Try Momma Reese.
MOMMA REESE: Try Bill Azure. If you can find INT. EIGHT AVENUE BAR - ABOUT 4 IN THE MORNING This is a hangout where black and white pimps wait to meet their whores after their night of street walking. This streetwalker world is far removed from the world of the call girl or the world of Janie Dale. CAMERA pans past a group of pimps at the bar taking bet on whose girls have made the most money that night. CAMERA then goes on to reveal KLUTE talking to another pimp ( Azure ). Azure represents a clear step down from Frank Ligourin. We catch only part of their dialogue.
AZURE: a couple weeks then she'd drift off a couple of weeks, you know what I mean?
KLUTE: Have you heard from her recently?
AZURE: She liked me all right but she had what she liked better, you know what I mean? We START FADE SOUND as Klute repeats
KLUTE: Have you heard from her recently? and CUT TO
PROPRIETRESS: She'd come in and I'd let her have something. Why not; she'd been a good customer, a beautiful person, a beautiful beautiful Again we fade sound a little before picture, then
CUT TO: EXT. OUTSIDE ADULT MOVIE THEATER: KLUTE, STREETWALKERS - DAY OR NIGHT Outside Theatre or Bookstore - Peepshow; an 8th Avenue establishment. SILENT ACTION this ( or VOICES UNDER ). Klute confers with one girl who summons and consults another. They seem to know of Arlyn haven't seen her recently refer him elsewhere
MRS. VASEK: The whore, yeah. I threw out.
KLUTE: Do you know where she went from Live like animals. Her and the man. Was she living with a man? We see Klute persisting - DISSOLVE
MRS. VASEK: Live like animals. Her and the man. Was she living with a man? We see Klute persisting - DISSOLVE
KLUTE: ( reacts ) Was she living with a man? We see Klute persisting - DISSOLVE
KLUTE: What's the matter?
BREE: ( glances about ) What the hell do you think's the ( then suggests ) I could wait for you someplace.
KLUTE: If Arlyn Page is living with Tom Then you don't need me.
BREE: ( eagerly ) Then you don't need me.
KLUTE: But if it's someone else I do. He starts on, simply assuming that she'll follow. ( There is a degree of acquaintanceship in their manners now - a reluctant collaboration. )
BREE: You sure pull a lot of mileage out of a hundred dollars. and follows on. He checks numbers, then crosses street diagonally toward a half-framed house.
BREE: Arlyn? Honey? Look, it's all right. From the connecting room a MAN'S VOICE ( Berger's ) calling out hoarsely.
BREE: Arlyn, it's all right. BERGER hastens, stumbles, into the doorframe carrying a CAR-RADIO with wires dangling, speaks before he sees them.
BERGER: Cappy, I got a radio! He stops for an instant face-to-face with Klute. Then turns, plunges out of view again. Arlyn breaks We hear the MUMBLE and WHISPER of their voices from the connecting room ( as she reassures him ). Bree looks inquiringly at Klute ( is that Grunemann? ): he shakes his head. Pause, then ARLYN reenters, wrapping her fingers together timidly wanting them out her only purpose.
ARLYN: We hear the MUMBLE and WHISPER of their voices from the connecting room ( as she reassures him ). Bree looks inquiringly at Klute ( is that Grunemann? ): he shakes his head. Pause, then ARLYN reenters, wrapping her fingers together timidly wanting them out her only purpose.
BREE: Arlyn, he just wanted to ask some questions something you could help us about.
ARLYN: Can't you see I'm strung out? Please, we're waiting for it he's got to have it!
KLUTE: We'll go. Just something you could tell us, first. Arlyn seems to accept the bargain. He indicates to Bree to proceed, stands away a little. Arlyn covers her elbow with one hand. Bree manages as best she Honey, a couple of years ago, with Jane and Frankie? Jane sent me a Please, if he sees you, he won't Arlyn, just tell me, did Jane have a dumper, one of her regular Johns?
BREE: Honey, a couple of years ago, with Jane and Frankie? Jane sent me a Please, if he sees you, he won't Arlyn, just tell me, did Jane have a dumper, one of her regular Johns?
ARLYN: Please, if he sees you, he won't Arlyn, just tell me, did Jane have a dumper, one of her regular Johns?
BREE: Arlyn, just tell me, did Jane have a dumper, one of her regular Johns?
ARLYN: What about him? Yes.
BREE: Did he come around often? Klute hands Grunemann's picture to Bree: Bree shows it to Arlyn. Arlyn inspects it, then uncertainly, No. He was an older man hon. The dumper was older.
ARLYN: No. He was an older man hon. The dumper was older.
KLUTE: Do you remember his name? What can you tell me about him? We hear FOOTSTEPS - UNDER, DIMLY - mounting the stairs. Bree notices them first, Klute persisting with Arlyn
ARLYN: Please, I am begging you.
KLUTE: It's important.
ARLYN: That's not the Dumper, that's all! He was an older man!
KLUTE: Can you give me any more description than that? Arlyn catches the footsteps, dodges past him toward the door, intending to reassure
ARLYN: as the pusher, CAPPY, steps in. All of this is very quick, simultaneous, a confusion of voices. CAPPY takes one look at Klute
ARLYN: Oh baby no it's all right oh my baby baby baby Klute and Bree are only a half-step behind. Klute offers to assist: Arlyn puts him away ferociously.
SUBWAY EXIT: SHOT of BREE's feet rushing up the stairs in darkness and then quick cut to her face as she hits the sunlight. She pauses for a moment - relieved to be out of the darkness.
CABLE: She wouldn't be reliable anyhow a narcotics addict.
KLUTE: I believed her, Pete.
TRASK: He's right you know. Waiting for the pusher, she'd tell you I believed her: the Dumper was not Tom Grunemann.
KLUTE: I believed her: the Dumper was not Tom Grunemann.
CABLE: All right, suppose it wasn't Tom Grunemann; where does that get you?
KLUTE: ( smiles ruefully ) It's where it doesn't get me. I've got nothing left that connects to Then, close the case.
CABLE: Then, close the case.
KLUTE: I better keep looking.
CABLE: Where, how?
KLUTE: ( the best he can offer ) I could try Arlyn Page again. She saw much more of the Dumper than Bree Daniel.
CABLE: You just finished telling me she had nothing to offer. Not Tom, you said, the Dumper was clearly not It's got to make sense some way. CABLE'S SECRETARY appears for a moment tapping her watch significantly.
KLUTE: It's got to make sense some way. CABLE'S SECRETARY appears for a moment tapping her watch significantly.
SECRETARY: Mr. Cable they are meeting in Mr. Camara's office.
CABLE: Yes Evvie, thanks. Gentlemen, I'm They rise, dismissed. He sorts a paper or two, continues to Klute.
KLUTE: How is it back there?
CABLE: I think you're homesick. I'll be out at my camp over the weekend. Nice right now, that touch of fall in the air, that skim of frost in the early mornings, very John, I'll be back here again Thursday; I'll be in touch. Lieutenant, thank you. KLUTE and TRASK depart. CABLE closes the door and returns to his desk. He pulls out a tape recorder from a drawer in his desk, rewinds it and turns it on. We hear a playback of the previous scene with KLUTE and TRASK. He stands at the window listening with some satisfaction; as if listening to what KLUTE revealed keeps him in control of the situation.
LIB, UNDER: ( toward Klute ) They were bringing a freighter down through Kill Van Kull; propellers washed it up on top. SUGARMAN brings into view a METAL BASKET attached with short ropes. He complains
TRASK: ( toward Klute ) They were bringing a freighter down through Kill Van Kull; propellers washed it up on top. SUGARMAN brings into view a METAL BASKET attached with short ropes. He complains
SUGARMAN: Why didn't you bring it up on deck?
DECKHAND: Would you bring it up on deck? They slip the basket downward, out of frame ( into the water ).
SPENCE: ( calmly ) They'll drop off theirselves when she comes out. We CUT TO -
FAVORING KLUTE: Klute looks on as EFFECTS trace the processing of the body. SPENCE kneels down out of frame to slide the bag around it. TRASK kneels down to make a brief examination straightens again. To Klute
TRASK: It'll go to the Examiner. But I don't see nothin that means nothin. We MOVE WITH KLUTE as he turns and moves away a few feet along deck. Here he stands. Then SUGARMAN moves into view holding a clipboard. Routinely
SUGARMAN: You help us with ID? We can't get nothin from him. He indicates the direction of Berger. Klute examines the clipboard data.
KLUTE: Arlyn Page was probably an alias. She went by the names Terry Arlyn and June Price. She may have been from Pittsburgh, someone told me. I can give you a list of people who knew her, if that would help to
SUGARMAN: No point, thanks.
KLUTE: Is he claiming the body?
SUGARMAN: Uh uh, that'd mean funeral He spits, moves back in the direction of the group; Klute continues to stand. BERGER moves in his direction. Brokenly
BERGER: Man could you help me? Klute doesn't understand his purport, reacts instantly, sympathetically
KLUTE: Yeah, what?
BERGER: You know, help me out. That's my baby there, dead. I got to get up. Klute stares at him a quiet horror as Berger Man you don't know what that does to me, my baby dead
KLUTE: You've got to get up.
BERGER: Klute shoves a bill in his hand, turns away very sharply, off the tugboat.
TRASK: That's how the other one died, you know. In the water.
KLUTE: ( nods ) I looked it up. Then ( we are assuming a complete understanding here between Klute and Trask, non-verbal. What Trask is asking, in effect, is: is this meaningful? Do we both suspect the same man? )
TRASK: INT. BREE'S APARTMENT - DAY It is late afternoon, but BREE is in her pajamas curled up in her bed. There are some magazines scattered around the bed and the television set is on an old movie. There are cracker crumbs in the bed and a cup of coffee and an open jar of peanut butter with the knife sticking out of the jar on the floor by the bed. It would seem that BREE has spent most of the day in bed. She looks like an unkempt child. The phone is ringing, but she does not answer it. The phone no sooner stops than the door bell rings. Reluctantly she gets out of bed and goes to the door. She looks through the spy hole and sees Klute's face. She undoes two locks and an obviously new chain and bolt and opens the He barely enters the room. His manner is cool and
KLUTE: INT. BREE'S APARTMENT - DAY It is late afternoon, but BREE is in her pajamas curled up in her bed. There are some magazines scattered around the bed and the television set is on an old movie. There are cracker crumbs in the bed and a cup of coffee and an open jar of peanut butter with the knife sticking out of the jar on the floor by the bed. It would seem that BREE has spent most of the day in bed. She looks like an unkempt child. The phone is ringing, but she does not answer it. The phone no sooner stops than the door bell rings. Reluctantly she gets out of bed and goes to the door. She looks through the spy hole and sees Klute's face. She undoes two locks and an obviously new chain and bolt and opens the He barely enters the room. His manner is cool and
BREE: Well hello come on in. He barely enters the room. His manner is cool and I thought you ought to know, Arlyn Page is dead.
KLUTE: I thought you ought to know, Arlyn Page is dead.
BREE: The same as Jane McKenna.
KLUTE: The same as Jane McKenna.
BREE: ( she betrays no reaction ) Thanks for the jolly news. I thought maybe you'd left town by now. You kind of just disappeared. But you boys from Tuscarora have a habit of disappearing, don't you? Klute looks around the disorderly room. The plants in the windowsill have never been in worse shape. They look as if she deliberately let them die of The next few weeks I would like to know where you are all the time.
KLUTE: The next few weeks I would like to know where you are all the time.
BREE: ( harshly ) Just let me know when you are going out and where
KLUTE: Just let me know when you are going out and where
BREE: What if i go out on tricks - you wanna come along? You could sit and read the National Geographic.
KLUTE: How can you do it to yourself?
BREE: ( coolly ) I don't get you.
KLUTE: Ligourin: How could you do it?
BREE: I told you before, you wouldn't You're right, I don't understand. Explain it to me. You were scared. Arlyn Page, that scared you. Well it should; that's So what did you do, you ran straight for it, death. Ligourin kills women.
KLUTE: You're right, I don't understand. Explain it to me. You were scared. Arlyn Page, that scared you. Well it should; that's So what did you do, you ran straight for it, death. Ligourin kills women.
BREE: No, no you're right, I'm sorry. He uses women; he lets them kill themselves. Is that how you want Arlyn was a junkie; I'm not on No, you can find some other way. Explain it to me. Bree, show me any sense to
KLUTE: No, no you're right, I'm sorry. He uses women; he lets them kill themselves. Is that how you want Arlyn was a junkie; I'm not on No, you can find some other way. Explain it to me. Bree, show me any sense to
BREE: Arlyn was a junkie; I'm not on No, you can find some other way. Explain it to me. Bree, show me any sense to
KLUTE: No, you can find some other way. Explain it to me. Bree, show me any sense to
BREE: ( screams, incoherently ) You get the Christ out! You dumb stupid bastard, you don't know anything, you square, you get out! I don't have to show you anything; you get out! Klute goes.
BREE: If I asked you something, would you not laugh? asked you to look at She pushes up her sleeve, points at tiny spot on her arm - a freckle. He peers at it then at her I thought it was maybe changing shape or something. Klute looks at it again. Judiciously He shows her a spot or two on his own forearm. She compares, is reassured. Embarrassedly, she tries to smile. It is unsuccessful. She gets up and moves about. Her manner in general is totally unguarded, honest, undramatic, searching.
KLUTE: It's been a full day. She pushes it out of his hand, pushes it shut. A little more angrily:
BREE: We did this before.
KLUTE: We did this before.
BREE: ( then ) Well all right. But you want to and I want you to and we both know it and all right.
KLUTE: ( evenly, slowly ) I don't like getting splashed. She accepts it decently. Tries to smile again, OK - OK She gestures, tries to find something more to say, moves by degrees toward the door and would succeed in leaving. But then:
BREE: OK - OK She gestures, tries to find something more to say, moves by degrees toward the door and would succeed in leaving. But then:
KLUTE: - Bree - Standing still, she starts again to cry and bravely to keep the crying to herself. The child bereft. He contends with himself, then crosses to her, puts his arms around her, soothes her hair. A completely asexual gesture at this point, a giving of comfort. She clings, trembles, burrows. Then a SERIES OF DISSOLVES: The street outside, at different times of night interposed, with Bree and Klute at different times of love, As Follows:
KLUTE: Go back to sleep. But she takes his hand and retains it rolls onto her back. Still relaxed, but a little more separate, thoughtful a mixture of the Bree we've seen before and the Bree we've glimpsed, the possible Bree. She observes:
BREE: I'm still scared. I mean different but still. Look, I made it very clear from the start, you're a yokel, you don't excite me, you don't even interest me, and so I only have one question which is what the hell are you doing in my bed?
KLUTE: My bed. She grins, then starts to reach for him, still receptive then feels another ( and genuine ) pang, turns her head away sharply.
BREE: He looks at her with concern, but only caresses her. She manages to explain
KLUTE: No, not just 'mm'. You don't know what I He settles himself beside her, makes overtures. She responds, but:
BREE: No, not just 'mm'. You don't know what I He settles himself beside her, makes overtures. She responds, but:
KLUTE: She pretends to bite they tussle she feels a suddenly growing excitement, seizes him. Fiercely, welcomingly, full out.
BREE: And we cut directly to:
BREE: The son of a bitch seduced me! She waits. Spangler says nothing.
SPANGLER: ( smiles ) I'd just be guessing.
BREE: Maybe this wasn't just a trick. Maybe you're in danger of real love, real involve
SPANGLER: Maybe this wasn't just a trick. Maybe you're in danger of real love, real involve
BREE: ( primly, distintly ) I do not love him.
SPANGLER: ( undeterred, suggests ) You've spent your life avoiding this. You'll try hard to deny it; you're quite likely to destroy it.
CUSTODIAN: Four five what number'd I Four ninety-seven, Jane McKenna Custodian finds it, unlocks for Klute's inspection. Reaches for paper Klute's holding.
KLUTE: Four ninety-seven, Jane McKenna Custodian finds it, unlocks for Klute's inspection. Reaches for paper Klute's holding.
CUSTODIAN: And I keep the authorization, I thought there'd be more. Klute pokes through a small collection of personal effects perhaps an ankle bracelet, rabbits foot, faded snapshot of a child, some letters, pitiful remnants of Jane McKenna's life. Klute closes the drawer, and the front of the drawer is marked McKENNA, JANE? Over the visual material of Klute's trip through the warehouse we hear WILD TRACK VOICE OVER bits and pieces of BREE talking with the psychiatrist.
KLUTE: I thought there'd be more. Klute pokes through a small collection of personal effects perhaps an ankle bracelet, rabbits foot, faded snapshot of a child, some letters, pitiful remnants of Jane McKenna's life. Klute closes the drawer, and the front of the drawer is marked McKENNA, JANE? Over the visual material of Klute's trip through the warehouse we hear WILD TRACK VOICE OVER bits and pieces of BREE talking with the psychiatrist.
TRASK'S VOICE: ( skipping, summarizing ) All right, there's Tom Grunemann, you're right, different margins, different spacing absolutely, sloppy, right.
KLUTE'S VOICE: TRASK'S VOICE All right, try this next guy. The right-hand document is switched.
TRASK'S VOICE: All right, try this next guy. The right-hand document is switched.
KLUTE, TRASK: Klute reacts.
TRASK: Think this is our guy?
KLUTE: I don't know. It looks familiar to Thought it might. It's off an arrest report you typed two years ago. Man you wanted samples of Then with subdued satisfaction, switching the projector again.
TRASK: Thought it might. It's off an arrest report you typed two years ago. Man you wanted samples of Then with subdued satisfaction, switching the projector again.
SCREEN; DOCUMENTS: TRASK'S VOICE Same margins top and sides. He does best with his middle fingers; you get fainter registration from outside keys like Q, A, L, P and like that. Next thing look around apostrophes, how he hits the space bar before
TRASK'S VOICE: Same margins top and sides. He does best with his middle fingers; you get fainter registration from outside keys like Q, A, L, P and like that. Next thing look around apostrophes, how he hits the space bar before
KLUTE: But what reason could he have? What possible reason?
TRASK: Unless he was involved with Grunemann's disappearance.
KLUTE: I knew Tom never wrote that letter.
TRASK: What else do you know?
KLUTE: I never could believe that Tom was a split personality. I never believed he was a Dumper; and I don't believe he disappeared of his own volition; and I don't believe he's alive.
TRASK: We have some very tentative circumstantial evidence of freeky behavior, but there's no evidence of murder - there's not even a I don't believe Tom's alive. As Klute talks he paces back and forth in the darkness. He crosses in front of the lighted screen; the letters projected on the screen ripple over his face.
KLUTE: I don't believe Tom's alive. As Klute talks he paces back and forth in the darkness. He crosses in front of the lighted screen; the letters projected on the screen ripple over his face.
KLUTE: Yes, Mr. Cable's office, please. CAMERA goes in close on Klute.
CABLE'S VOICE: ( through telephone ) John, how are you?
KLUTE: I'll be sending you on a report It's a beautiful day in Tuscarora - I don't envy you that humidity in the city.
CABLE'S VOICE: It's a beautiful day in Tuscarora - I don't envy you that humidity in the city.
KLUTE: It's not so bad. There is a silence. Both Klute and Cable seem to be waiting for one or the other to make the next move.
CABLE'S VOICE: ( obligingly ) What's in it?
KLUTE: I think Tom Grunemann's dead. I've been a lot of places - I've asked a lot of people. I've found no proof he's around. I've found no proof he was ever around.
CABLE VOICE: How do you go from that to the idea Tom's dead? Suicide you're suggesting? He killed himself?
KLUTE: ( plodding, unemphatic ) He could've been murdered.
CABLE'S VOICE: I'm sure the FBI and the Police explored that possibility.
KLUTE: No. They never did, really. But that's what I'm going to recommend. The next step. Unless something
CABLE'S VOICE: Have you discussed this with them?
KLUTE: It's in the report.
CABLE'S VOICE: Do they have the report? Have you discussed it with them?
KLUTE: I wanted to give it to you first.
CABLE'S VOICE: All right. All right John, just sit tight will you? I'll read your report, I'll discuss it with the others. I'll be back next Thursday, we'll talk the whole thing over then. Nothing til Thursday, all right?
KLUTE: All right.
CABLE'S VOICE: Thank you. Goodbye, John.
KLUTE: Goodbye, Pete. Klute hangs up.
BREE: I saw Mr. Faber. You remember Mr. Faber, don't you?
KLUTE: ( controlledly ) Is that all you have to say?
BREE: Is that all you have to say?
KLUTE: What am I supposed to say?
BREE: Well, I told him I wouldn't - uh - go there any more. I know it's tough to understand, but it wasn't easy. You see, he was nice to me. I mean, it wasn't just him. I got something out of it too I guess. Anyway, I told him I wouldn't go there anymore. She is like a child awaiting praise from her teacher. Klute says nothing. They continue walking among the plants and he picks up a few that she had Well, here's your gold star. Considering his contempt for all the dead plant life he has seen in her apartment in the past, she is pleased by this act of belief in her.
KLUTE: Well, here's your gold star. Considering his contempt for all the dead plant life he has seen in her apartment in the past, she is pleased by this act of belief in her.
BREE: Spangler says we have a You and I a relationship.
KLUTE: You and I a relationship.
BREE: You and I a relationship.
KLUTE: I was wondering what that was.
BREE: ( beat ) Hell there's nothing so mysterious about the square life.
BREE: Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus.
KLUTE: Don't touch anything. He moves quickly to the rear of the apartment, looks at the rear window which has been broken inward in a litter of glass then returns to the table at the front of the apartment; his folders. Bree cracks wise, unsteadily.
BREE: You suppose he's a married fella?
KLUTE: He stands, looking down, taking no notice as
BREE: He got in my clothing! Then a moment later, she cries out again, more Oh. Oh. He turns quickly. She is holding out, at arms length, a pair of her underpants. With a disgust so extreme she can only laugh.
KLUTE: Drop it. She doesn't respond. He seizes her arm, shakes the garment back onto the floor. She starts to gag, slaps her hand over her mouth, starts for the bathroom. Klute yanks her back.
BREE: ( full out, vengefully ) My God, I thought it was over. And here I am, daddy, right back at the Right back at the start, right?
KLUTE: Right back at the start, right?
BREE: Right back at the start, right?
KLUTE: Go down in my room.
BREE: You said it was over, right? You said not to worry any more, all over, right? She's broken for the door; it's questionable that she's even heard him. He hasn't time to pursue shouts again
KLUTE: Go down in my room and wait. Then he turns back into the apartment.
ROSS: ( to Klute ) But if Cable killed Grunemann why would he get you hired to look for Because he knew I couldn't leave the case alone. And this way at least he'd keep track of it. And What about Grunemann's letters to the girl, everything like that?
KLUTE: Because he knew I couldn't leave the case alone. And this way at least he'd keep track of it. And What about Grunemann's letters to the girl, everything like that?
ROSS: What about Grunemann's letters to the girl, everything like that?
TRASK: Cable's letters, Cable's phone calls. Cable's everything else. He's been a Dumper a long time. He just passed off his own peculiar habits on the other man it kept things goin'.
ROSS: OK, pretend I believe you. Tell me how you get an indictment.
TRASK: Can't. Yet. Oh we got everythin' else: first rate evidence Cable typed those dumper letters to Bree Daniel. And Jane McKenna: Klute found a couple in her personal remains. We got dates of Cable's trips here coincidin' with phone calls to Bree Daniel, also the dates of death of McKenna and Page. We got some hints of his personal history. His father, unsuccessful salesman, committed suicide when he was 13. His mother pinned all her hopes on her son. He won a national science youth award at the age of eight. They had no money, but she hired special tutors for him in the summer time. She saw a good thing. He graduated from high school at 14 college at 16 no friends The kids in his class thought of him as a freak. He got his Ph.D. at 18 married at age 21 to his then employer's daughter. The marriage lasted 4 weeks. Her father had it annulled. She says he was impotent. World War II he got in bad trouble about a German girl, no details. We think we know why he killed Grunemann he found out Cable was a dumper; Cable couldn't take that. We think we know why he killed McKenna she wanted to blackmail him for it. All fine. But we got no body, no direct witnesses, we can't go any-damn-where.
KLUTE: That's the reason i told him we had no evidence Tom was still alive. We wanted to shake him into another phone call or another letter. It didn't work out just that way. The Technicians, meanwhile have packed to depart. The first Technician scoops the torn up photographs into another collecting box. Trask retrieves the company outing photograph.
TRASK: Gov, want to leave me that one. How come he got to play with this one, I left them here. I was doing some work here. Trask eyes Klute for a moment, as if a querying his relationship with Bree. Klute is clearly unresponsive. Trask resumes.
KLUTE: I left them here. I was doing some work here. Trask eyes Klute for a moment, as if a querying his relationship with Bree. Klute is clearly unresponsive. Trask resumes.
TRASK: It's damn lucky you didn't have the dossier on Cable here.
KLUTE: Nobody's seen that.
TRASK: If we get anything from the lab, we'll have it by noon. And just think all he really had to do was write us a letter.
ROSS: Sounds to me you better shake him again. Put him in a spot he has to do something more but this time give him a time and a place to do He called this morning from Tuscarora. Asked me to meet him at 3:00 at the downtown heliport. He's on his way to Chicago.
KLUTE: He called this morning from Tuscarora. Asked me to meet him at 3:00 at the downtown heliport. He's on his way to Chicago.
TRASK: He sure chalks up a lot of flight Klute starts gathering his papers we CUT TO
BREE: Ah, Schmendrick what's the scam?
KLUTE: Those were police laboratory people, they've been over the Oh zippidy-doo, they'll find my Can I go in? I need some stuff. He nods; she starts by. Then
BREE: ( mock delight ) Oh zippidy-doo, they'll find my ( then ) Can I go in? I need some stuff. He nods; she starts by. Then
KLUTE: Where'd you spend last night?
BREE: With Trina.
KLUTE: I called Trina.
BREE: Maybe I wasn't there when you Bree, what's actually happened? It wasn't that bad.
KLUTE: Bree, what's actually happened? It wasn't that bad.
BREE: ( cuts in harshly ) How do you know how bad it was?
KLUTE: Why couldn't you stay here with me?
BREE: Because I didn't want to be touched! I didn't think you'd get Pause. Then, evenly
KLUTE: Trask wants to talk with you. She starts on, then turns back toward him rather Hey look officer I can explain everything. It was just you know, everything all of a
BREE: Hey look officer I can explain everything. It was just you know, everything all of a
KLUTE: Trask wants to talk with you. She continues on up; Klute continues down.
TRASK: Miss Daniel, be sensible, you find another place till we get things cleaned up.
BREE: ( brightly ) Oh well that shouldn't take you more than another, oh, two and a half or three years, should it?
TRASK: A few more days. We know who did So do I.
BREE: So do I.
TRASK: No, not Grunemann. He's dead. The man that killed him also prob'ly Jane McKenna, also Arlyn Page. She spins around mute terrified.
BREE: ( manages ) Arlyn and Jane commited suicide. He said they commited suicide.
TRASK: Now there's a picture I'd like you You said someone killed them, you said you know who, you said that.
BREE: You said someone killed them, you said you know who, you said that.
TRASK: Well we're pretty
BREE: Why isn't he locked up?
TRASK: We don't want to just lock him up; we want a conviction, we wanted him to do something more.
BREE: Is that why Klute didn't tell me?
TRASK: I guess he figured it was better.
BREE: What was better? I made better No, that's not
TRASK: No, that's not
BREE: Is that what he set me up for? Everything he's told me from the beginning? don't worry, don't
TRASK: ( coldly ) From the beginning I don't know why the hell he's messin with you. If he was me he'd know better. If he was even a city boy he'd know better. You're a whore Miss Daniel, that's the truth of it, right? Now somethin I'd like you to look at.
BREE: I don't have to look at anything. I don't have
TRASK: Here please. He coerces her to the table and unrolls the Company outing picture. ( We see the rip extending up through the image of Tom Grunemann in the front row. )
BREE: Oh no.
TRASK: Like for you to look for the man.
BREE: Grunemann? I've looked at him a Trask has clamped his thumb over the torn image of Grunemann, indicates with the other hand
TRASK: No. Not Grunemann. The Dumper. Just look around I said look for the We see her comply her eyes moving over the rows of faces. Then we see her stiffen, hear her gasp
BREE: and WE CUT TO
CABLE: Sorry we had to meet here. But I'm pressed for time.
KLUTE: Well there's a couple
CABLE: I read your report. I had to go along with it the idea of this being a wild goose chase, Tom being nowhere around
KLUTE: Well as a matter of
CABLE: I've been up country, you know my summer place, my camp. I don't even have a telephone there. This morning they sent a messenger out, that you'd been trying to call me.
KLUTE: I'm on my way to Chicago. Very important meeting tonight. Well any new developments?
CABLE: I'm on my way to Chicago. Very important meeting tonight. Well any new developments?
KLUTE: Yeah, two things Pete, that
CABLE: You said Trask was arranging laboratory work. Police laboratory. Anything from that?
KLUTE: Yeah. It wasn't Tom.
CABLE: I'm sorry. I don't understand.
KLUTE: It wasn't Tom that broke in the It has to be Tom. You said he ripped up his own pictures, he
CABLE: It has to be Tom. You said he ripped up his own pictures, he
KLUTE: Not Tom. Whoever it was left a kind of souvenir, I told you, in her clothing. Semen. The laboratory got a blood group reading from that. The man was blood type 0; Tom was an AB.
CABLE: ( slowly ) Some mistake perhaps that
KLUTE: No. No mistake Pete. It doesn't prove who it was but proves it wasn't Tom.
CABLE: You must be discouraged.
KLUTE: ( prosaically ) Not too bad. This brings back that Dumper in the picture.
CABLE: That who?
KLUTE: Dumper, the man Bree Daniel mentioned and Arlyn Page knew and Jane McKenna knew.
CABLE: You said he was no possible connection with Tom. The Page girl told you that, not Tom.
KLUTE: Someone's been doing all these You were hired to look for Tom, not Pete, I've got a chance to buy Jane McKenna's black book.
CABLE: You were hired to look for Tom, not Pete, I've got a chance to buy Jane McKenna's black book.
KLUTE: Pete, I've got a chance to buy Jane McKenna's black book.
CABLE: Call-girls generally keep a book, you know, a list of their clients. Sometimes, if a girl retires, she'll even sell it worth good money. Jane McKenna had a black book; when she died it was stolen. I've been after it a long time.
KLUTE: Call-girls generally keep a book, you know, a list of their clients. Sometimes, if a girl retires, she'll even sell it worth good money. Jane McKenna had a black book; when she died it was stolen. I've been after it a long time.
CABLE: You were hired to look for Tom.
KLUTE: I'm meeting a man tomorrow night. He wants to meet me on East-River Drive he wants five hundred dollars for the book. Can you get that for me Pete? Sometime right along about now it privately comes to Cable that Klute may know everything and that he, Cable, may be being trapped.
CABLE: I can't follow you.
KLUTE: Will the Company put up five hundred dollars to get Jane McKenna's list of clients?
CABLE: No. It's ridiculous. This has nothing to do with Tom Grunemann.
KLUTE: ( shrugs, stolidly ) It probably has the Dumper's name. It might give us some kind of new ( beat ) I want a look at it anyhow.
CABLE: Klute, the Company's interest is Tom Grunemann. Solely and exclusively. You say you can't find Tom; all right, I'll see that you're paid off; the case is All right, but I'm going to see that list. HELICOPTER FLIGHT is announced over loud speaker and Cable and Klute walk onto field.
KLUTE: All right, but I'm going to see that list. HELICOPTER FLIGHT is announced over loud speaker and Cable and Klute walk onto field.
CABLE: Why would they deal with you? You don't know these people. Klute is momentarily at a loss not a question he'd prepared for improvises.
KLUTE: No, but Bree does. She's negotiating for me. Bree Daniel. Cable takes an instant to compute the thing. Then
CABLE: I can talk it over; possibly I can get the money. When are you meeting the man?
KLUTE: Tomorrow evening, nine. East River Drive and 73rd Street.
CABLE: Suppose I meet you there a half hour before.
KLUTE: Just send me a money order.
CABLE: No, I'd like to be in on it. ATTENDANT comes over to motion Cable onto the Klute smiles awkwardly, raises his hand in a goodbye gesture.
KLUTE: Tomorrow. See you tomorrow night.
CABLE: Tomorrow. See you tomorrow night.
KLUTE: No answer. He starts downstairs again then turns back, unlocks the door himself, enters.
KLUTE: I'm always getting surprises. Bree doesn't answer. She sets the armload of dresses over the back of a chair, moves aside to get others. Frank smiles cautiously, ruefully. Then
BREE: ( tight, small ) Trask said I should move. Let's not make a thing of it. He continues to look at her; she continues to gather possessions. Then trying to smile, to deal with it casually
FRANK: ( helpfully ) That's right. This other girl's got a very big apartment, big, plenty of room. ( then ) Look, it's not necessarily how it looks, right? It's He thinks better of continuing. Klute looks from him back to Bree. He speaks gravely, spacing his words unable to speak any faster.
KLUTE: No. Please. Not with this son of a Frank rises, both nervous and offended but dealing with Klute as between civilized men. Klute, let's handle it like grownups? I mean we're all grown up now, right? we all respect each other, you know what I mean? I respect you, Bree respects you you could say, it just didn't work out between you and she. But you got to respect her too you know, her best interests, best for her Klute hits him, pursues, recovers, and starts to beat him. BLOOD thickly descends the side of Frank's face, as he struggles away. Bree is screaming. Bree grabs at him from behind. He thrusts her off. But it allows Frank to break away through the still-open door. Klute pursues.
FRANK: Klute, let's handle it like grownups? I mean we're all grown up now, right? we all respect each other, you know what I mean? I respect you, Bree respects you you could say, it just didn't work out between you and she. But you got to respect her too you know, her best interests, best for her Klute hits him, pursues, recovers, and starts to beat him. BLOOD thickly descends the side of Frank's face, as he struggles away. Bree is screaming. Bree grabs at him from behind. He thrusts her off. But it allows Frank to break away through the still-open door. Klute pursues.
BREE: Klute is restrained restrains himself. Frank has faced around on the stairs, still bleeding extravagantly from his torn scalp. Earnestly
FRANK: Hey, I'm gonna get you dropped. Klute start's out after him Frank vaults away down the stairs we hear him stumbling and running Klute faces sharply around into the INT. BREE'S APARTMENT - DAY PAST KLUTE TO BREE. She is running away from him again, to a corner of the apartment, fumbling at a sewing basket. He starts in, after her.
KLUTE: ( indistinctly ) TWO SHOT She swings about as he overtakes her, holding a pair of scissors simply and transcendently terrified. She strikes at him, slashing his forearm. He and she stand in absolute silence. He looks down at the stain of blood spreading through the fabric of his jacket sleeve. Then he turns out of the room and down the stairs.
TWO SHOT: She swings about as he overtakes her, holding a pair of scissors simply and transcendently terrified. She strikes at him, slashing his forearm. He and she stand in absolute silence. He looks down at the stain of blood spreading through the fabric of his jacket sleeve. Then he turns out of the room and down the stairs.
BREE: until he gets back. ( beat ) Yes I heard you, I understand that. I said I'm going to come over, I'll wait until he gets back. She hangs up before the other party can object in detail takes up her purse and goes out, not even closing the door behind her.
KLUTE: ( listens, then soberly - ) Trask, I don't get that.
TO: EXT. STREET: CABLE - DAY Cable stands looking after her, hesitates over choice of action, decides to follow.
KLUTE: Who told you, his secretary? Has someone checked his hotel? He always stays at the I'll look around, I'll call you He hangs up. First he checks out the windows ( but - if we want to be accurate - from mid room, without directly approaching the windows themselves ). Then he secures a pistol from his jacket ( and folds the jacket itself over his arm to conceal it, as a matter of public decorum ), and goes on out.
KLUTE: INT. BREE'S APARTMENT: KLUTE - DAY He enters, puzzles, starts checking around ( quite thoroughly; she might be hiding from him ). We CUT
BACK TO: EXT. STREETS: BREE; FIGURE OF CABLE - DAY Bree moves past CONSTRUCTION WORK, through one of those temporary pedestrian passageways. Behind her, nearer than before we see the FIGURE OF CABLE.
LELA: I have to close up now. Leave your name and number with his message service, Mrs. Daniel, and why don't you just go home and wait until he
BREE: Well I have to close up now.
LELA: Well I have to close up now.
BREE: Look could I use your phone?
LELA: Yes indeed.
BREE: Look. I almost killed my I almost killed someone.
LELA: ( the same tone, completely ) Well I'm certain Doctor Spangler will want to talk with you; excuse Bree moves to the desk and telephone. But we move with the Secretary as she moves into Spangler's inner office and switches out the lights ( establishing TIME CHANGE: dusk now ) and as we hear, O.S., the sound of DIALING and BREE'S VOICE
FABER: ( then, glancing about ) INT. SPANGLER ( OUTER ) OFFICE: BREE ON PHONE - DAY ( NIGHT ) ( haltingly ) I'm I just have to talk to someone. I'm just a little way across town
BREE: ( haltingly ) I'm I just have to talk to someone. I'm just a little way across town
FABER: Yes - yes dear, yes maybe half an hour, sure, yes. He hangs up. An ancient stirring, a kind of triumph. He glances about, then tightens his tie. Then it comes to him, after all he takes note of himself he leans forward against his desk and rubs his forehead with old bony fingers. We CUT TO
KLUTE: Trina, will you call me if you hear from, her? Will you check other people she might call? Yeah, if it wasn't trouble I wouldn't ask vou. He hangs up, immediately starts to dial again, then pauses to check a list he's laid out by the telephone. While he's doing this, his PHONE RINGS.
FOREMAN: Lady, it's closing up there.
BREE: We're closing up, quitting time, I have an appointment with Mr. Oh, yeah. He lets her pass, glances after her like the others, continues on his way.
FOREMAN: We're closing up, quitting time, I have an appointment with Mr. Oh, yeah. He lets her pass, glances after her like the others, continues on his way.
BREE: ( unsurely ) I have an appointment with Mr. Oh, yeah. He lets her pass, glances after her like the others, continues on his way.
FOREMAN: Oh, yeah. He lets her pass, glances after her like the others, continues on his way.
BREE: I have an appointment with Mr. In there. Mr. Faber Bree goes on nervously in the direction indicated, A CORNER OF OFFICES: NATHAN FABER NATHAN stands bending over a bench with back to camera, conferring with another man as Bree approaches looking to us, as to her, exactly like his father. We hear the Receptionist's VOICE Mr. Faber As Bree nears him, he straightens and turns a much younger man. Bree stops short, recognizing the I'm sorry Mr. Faber Senior.
RECEPTIONIST: In there. Mr. Faber Bree goes on nervously in the direction indicated, A CORNER OF OFFICES: NATHAN FABER NATHAN stands bending over a bench with back to camera, conferring with another man as Bree approaches looking to us, as to her, exactly like his father. We hear the Receptionist's VOICE Mr. Faber As Bree nears him, he straightens and turns a much younger man. Bree stops short, recognizing the I'm sorry Mr. Faber Senior.
NATHAN: I'm sorry Mr. Faber Senior.
BREE: I'm sorry Mr. Faber Senior.
NATHAN: ( calmly ) My father went home about fifteen minutes ago; he wasn't feeling too She has already started away. He calls after her Can I help you? She looks back quickly, smiles nervously
BREE: It wasn't important. But we hold on him for a moment as she continues out of scene until he turns away to other matters. Then
BREE: Did Mr. Faber leave a message for me or anything? Mr. Faber Senior? Bree Daniel.
RECEPTIONIST: Oh, I thought that was for The Receptionist riffles through a stack of assorted envelopes hands one out to Bree and promptly takes her way off. Out. Bree starts to open the envelope then and there but OTHERS continue to move past her. She seeks a more private ROWS OF GARMENTS Bree shelters herself out of sight from everyone else though we continue to hear INTERMITTENT VOICES, O.S. and continue to maintain the sense of other presences. We see her open the envelope
RECEPTIONIST AREA: back to the reception area again. ( By now this immediate scene has emptied, though we catch sight of a figure or two at scene-start, moving through the background, and continue to hear an occasional NOISE or VOICE O.S. ) Bree looks about for someone then scouts for a pencil, finds one in a desk ( or bench ) drawer, starts to readdress the envelope ( to direct it back to Mr. Faber ). Then she breaks off from that, takes up a PHONE instead, dials waits then
BREE: Bree Daniel. Has he called in yet? Well if he does, I'm at two seven eight, three one hundred, and I guess I can wait here five minutes; then I'll try from somewhere else. Just tell him Bree Daniel; he knows She hangs up, goes back to readdressing the envelope. FOOTSTEPS are approaching in her direction. She glances up apologetically.
KLUTE: Did she leave a number? This is a police call; don't make me take time to prove it. Did she leave a number? What is the number? What is the number?
CABLE: Can't we talk together reasonably, just ordinarily? I know you're expecting some kind of extravagant behavior, but believe me do you believe me?
BREE: Yes all right
CABLE: We can talk
BREE: All right, then, an ordinary matter. I'm a quite well off man, I have a position to respect. I would feel personally uncomfortable to be connected with a certain kind of woman, I'm sure you understand. Do you? Well I'd like to buy Jane McKenna's book. He looks at her discerningly. She seems not to have followed his exposition. He tries patiently to clarify it.
CABLE: All right, then, an ordinary matter. I'm a quite well off man, I have a position to respect. I would feel personally uncomfortable to be connected with a certain kind of woman, I'm sure you understand. Do you? Well I'd like to buy Jane McKenna's book. He looks at her discerningly. She seems not to have followed his exposition. He tries patiently to clarify it.
BREE: Yes Jane McKenna's book I could make a phone call.
CABLE: No, you're frightened, you're pretending. Well Klute knows about me then. Does everybody know, can you tell me?
BREE: Then it doesn't matter what I do any more, does it? Pause. Then he shudders slightly.
CABLE: Then it doesn't matter what I do any more, does it? Pause. Then he shudders slightly.
TO: INT. GARMENT BUILDING - DAY ( NIGHT ) MLS, the two FIGURES: CABLE, BREE. They are somewhat separated Cable has gone to look down from one of the arched windows of the loft, while Bree remains in place. She is a prisoner, we can suppose when we cut closer we'll see her eyes continually shifting, her mind calculating her chances but he hasn't molested her. He bears her no animus at this point. His manner is rather quiet, undetermined. He feels some relief that the thing is, in effect, over and some puzzlement about what to do ( with either her or himself ) now. He returns toward her.
CABLE: I've got no idea what I shall do. He happens too close; she can't avoid shrinking.
BREE: Will you let me go then? He seems not to have heard the request. He sits for a moment. An intellectual interest, a curiosity. ( Meanwhile, perhaps, we see her starting to slip her shoes off, in hopes of running. )
CABLE: It puzzles me so badly. I've done terrible things but I can't consider myself a terrible man. I've killed three people and I'd still want to say it was accident, do you see?
BREE: ( tries again, slowly ) If you'll let me go I could tell them what
CABLE: ( unhearing, resumes ) Tom Grunemann discovered me we were here on business together, he discovered me with Jane McKenna. Then I suppose it was the the contempt I saw in his face and the certainty that sooner or later he'd use it against me. Within the Company. I endured that as long as I could, do you see?
BREE: I'm sorry, I'm just frightened. Excuse me Miss Daniel?
CABLE: Excuse me Miss Daniel?
BREE: I said yes, I see.
CABLE: ( doubtingly ) Oh no, I don't think
BREE: Tell me. I'll listen. I just want you to tell me. He rises, approaches her apparently taken in, credulous, grateful, wondering
CABLE: You're willing to listen? You want me just to keep talking? He hits her.
CABLE: You're a person of no value, you have no value
KLUTE: Klute moves on moves on gains position Cable catches the sound, whirls, screams
CABLE: Cable catches the sound, whirls, screams
CABLE, KLUTE: Cable breaks loose, backs a step backs another step and then, turns and runs unhesitant against one of the windows, exploding it outward with him, both frame and glass.
KLUTE: Come on. Come on. ( Note: also shoot in MSL, without dialogue, with SIRENS O.S. full up. ) Then we CUT TO
BREE: He doesn't at least expel her. She ventures in, sits on the table, swings her heels, watches him pack. His arm impairs him. At length
KLUTE: I got a call from Ross this morning. Cable owned a plot of woodland he'd go there on weekends. They found Tom Grunemann's body buried there. They've notified his wife.
BREE: ( pause; then sharply ) Well it wasn't us city people that did it your fine rosy-cheeked country boy.
KLUTE: You're going back?
BREE: You're going back?
KLUTE: Pause. She compresses her lips, slips down from the table, starts smartly out of the room.
BREE: Well suppose I hadn't come downstairs. Would you just have folded up and sneaked away?
KLUTE: ( slowly ) No. I was going to come up. I wanted to ask you to marry me. ( pause )
BREE: You wanted to, or you are?
KLUTE: I am.
BREE: You could at least look at me! He complies, stands and looks, folding a necktie. But now she finds she has to look away. Somewhat Look yes. I mean thanks, but don't you think we better be About what?
KLUTE: About what?
BREE: Look at me. I'm pretty and sort of clever and very well intentioned, and dear God I'd tear your heart I don't think so. He resumes packing, continues through the How can you not think so? You know the things I can do.
KLUTE: I don't think so. He resumes packing, continues through the How can you not think so? You know the things I can do.
BREE: How can you not think so? You know the things I can do.
KLUTE: ( unclearly ) They don't scare me any more.
BREE: Doesn't scare me. I think we could handle it. Thereafter he guards his silence, staunchly goes on packing, as she comes at the thing from various sharp angles.
KLUTE: Doesn't scare me. I think we could handle it. Thereafter he guards his silence, staunchly goes on packing, as she comes at the thing from various sharp angles.
BREE: Please, I'm a city person. I'm sure it's just as good as here but I'm a city person, that's all, I am! Hell I know what it's like. I was in Jersey once: the frogs go bra-a p all night! What'im I supposed to do? Mend your socks and sing in the church choir? Do you not believe I love you? I'm honestly, honestly just He has almost finished packing returns toward the suitcase with the tin CLOCK and electric FAN, tries to fit them in as conversation continues.
KLUTE: ( bitterly ) You don't believe that either, do you? Why can't you see my side?
BREE: ( bitterly ) You don't believe that either, do you? Why can't you see my side?
KLUTE: Can you use these? He sets the fan beside her, hands her the LOUDLY TICKING clock. She holds it in her lap, numbly. He's packed closes various drawers, leaving in good order snaps the suitcase shut, lifts it stiffly down from the table. She remains sitting.
BREE: Can I carry something for you, to the car? Will you kiss me?
KLUTE: No. I'm sore. He moves to the door, pauses, half-smiles
BREE: He turns around and stops. He walks slowly back to CLOSER: BREE, KLUTE He arrives in proximity to her. Then the following events in more or less the following order: He looks at her inquiringly. She responds by sitting down, plunk, on the grubby front step of the Brownstone. Having stood for some time during which she has offered only twitching motions of her hands he sets down the suitcase. Having set down the suitcase, but derived no answer, he reaches out one arm, and leans against the building front. She nearly arrives at the level of statement. Fretfully, indecisively
BREE: Oh heck Oh heck Then, as a man not to be dallied with, he picks up the suitcase again. She looks at him strickenly, but it doesn't precipitate her into speech. He puts it down again. And then then, after all, goddamit, he reaches out, grabs her wrist, and simply hauls her along, suitcase in one hand, Bree in the other. As she yanks, shouts, struggles
THE END: Writers : Andy Lewis David Lewis
