WIDE SHOT: A large and very comfortable office over-looking St. Patrick's Cathedral. At the moment the office is filled to bursting with men and women, slumped in chairs, sitting on desks, all of them very tense. Among the crowd of people we note: MURRAY FISHER, a young and very ambitious junior executive and PHYLLIS BERNARD, an attractive woman in her early thirties. She is a lawyer with the agency. At the moment, TED KRAMER, nice-looking without being what you would call a matinee idol, paces back and forth. His tie is loosened, he checks his watch every fifteen seconds. Clearly he is very distraught.
TED: ( predicting the worst ) They're not gonna call. I tell you they're not gonna call. I blew it. I don't know what I did wrong, but I –
O'CONNOR: ( not unfriendly ) Ted, will you take it easy? Revlon's not about to drop an account that represents more than two million in gross billing receipts in a small agency like this, without making us sweat. Now just relax, okay? Everything's gonna be fine.
TED: ( at this stage, nothing will help ) I don't think so, Jim. Maybe I shouldn't have –
JOANNA: ( intense ) I love you, Billy.
BILLY: ( drowsy ) I love you too, mommy. Good-night.
ON JOANNA: She gets up from the bed and starts toward the door of the child's room.
JOANNA: Sleep tight.
BILLY: Don't let the bedbugs bite.
ON JOANNA: Now that the light is brighter, we can SEE her more clearly. In her mid-thirties, she is beautiful, dressed in a style that can best be described as Bloomingdale's. HOLD FOR A BEAT as she leans against the door. It is clear from her expression that she is terribly upset. Then, making up her mind, she crosses to a closet and takes out a suitcase. THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HER as she carries it into the bedroom, lays it out on the bed and opens it. PAN WITH HER as she crosses to a closet, grabs an armload of clothes and dumps them helter-skelter into the suitcase.
O'CONNOR: Here's to Ted Kramer.
O'CONNOR: ( putting an arm around Ted squeezing him tight ) I wanna tell you something about this little runt. He went out there and sold the shit out of Revlon and that's why we got the account. It was his idea, it was his concept, right down the line.
TED: ( embarrassed, but cannot stop grinning ) All I can say. All I can say is this is maybe one of the five best days of my whole life.
TED: ( in the middle of a story ) So anyway Jim and I are making the pitch, right? And all of a sudden this old guy starts to cough and I keep on going and he keeps on coughing and I keep on going and he keeps on coughing and –
MURRAY: ( interrupting ) Congratulations, Ted. That was a hell of a job.
TED: ( surprised ) Where you goin' Murray, it's early?
MURRAY: Got to get home.
TED: ( glancing at his watch ) Oh, Christ, I'm late. I gotta get out of here. ( however, instead of going, he settles back and resumes his story ) So anyway, I look over and this old geezer is starting to turn blue and I swear to God the only thing I can think about is that this poor sonofabitch is gonna die on me and screw up the pitch.
WIDER ANGLE: As Joanna puts the finishing touches on the list and carefully arranges it on top of the kitchen counter next to a box of unsweetened, whole grain cereal and a jar of honey. Note: It is this same set of notes that Ted will later unthinkingly throw away.
WIDE SHOT: As the doors to the outer lobby open and Ted and O'Connor Ted starts to hail a cab, O'Connor stops him.
O'CONNOR: Hey, what's the rush? C'mon, walk me a couple of blocks.
TED: Jim, I've got to go. I'm already late –
O'CONNOR: Listen, Ted. I just want to tell you, when old man Schmidt retires next year, I've got a pretty good feeling they'll kick me upstairs.
O'CONNOR: .and when they do, I just want you to know I'm takin' you along with
O'CONNOR: ( feeling no pain ) Y'know, Ted, I mean what I said back there. You did a hell of a job on this and I want you to know I'm turning the whole show over to you.
TED: ( thrilled ) I mean it Ted, you're running this
O'CONNOR: I mean it Ted, you're running this
WIDE SHOT: The suitcase is now full. Joanna zips it shut and looks around to make sure that she hasn't forgotten anything. Then, she hefts her suitcase and starts out of the room.
WIDE SHOT: Joanna carries in the suitcase, sets it by the front door, then she crosses to the living room and sits down at the dining table.
HER POV: As the door swings open to reveal Ted Kramer, an enormous grin on his face, a bottle of champagne in his hand. He is so full of himself that he doesn't notice there is anything Note: Throughout the entire scene he carries the bottle of champagne, never putting it down.
TED: I thought you might just like to know that at five-fifteen this afternoon we were officially handed the Fire and Ice account by Revlon.
JOANNA: ( she takes a deep breath, then: ) Ted, I'm leaving you.
TED: That represents a gross billing in excess of two million –
JOANNA: Here are my keys. I won't be needing them any more.
TED: ( sardonic ) I'm sorry I'm late, all right? I'm sorry I didn't call – I was busy making a living.
JOANNA: My American Express. My Bloomingdale's Credit Card. My check book –
TED: ( the martyr ) Okay, okay. What is it this time? What did I do now?.
JOANNA: ( ignoring this ) I took two thousand out of the savings account. That was what I had in the bank when we got married.
TED: Joanna, whatever it is, believe me, I'm sorry.
JOANNA: Here are the slips for the laundry and the cleaning. They'll be ready on Saturday.
TED: ( hard lining it ) Now listen, before you do something you'll really regret you'd better stop and think -
JOANNA: ( not bothering to look up ) I've paid the rent, the Con-Ed and the phone bill, so you don't have to worry about them.
JOANNA: There, that's everything.
TED: ( panic starting ) For God's sake, Joanna, would you at least tell me what I did that's so terrible! Would you do me that little
ON JOANNA: At the door.
JOANNA: Look, it's not your fault, okay? It's me. It's my fault – you just married the wrong person.
TED: ( placating her ) So we've got problems. Everybody's got problems – that's normal –
JOANNA: Ted, you're not listening to me. It's over, finished.
TED: I'm listening, Joanna – believe me, I'm listening. My wife is walking out on me after eight years of –
JOANNA: ( bitter ) You just don't get it, do you? ( as though to a child ) I – am – really – and – truly – leaving – you.
TED: I heard you, Joanna. I promise I heard you.
JOANNA: No you didn't. You didn't even ask about Billy.
TED: ( stiffening ) What about Billy?
JOANNA: I'm not taking him with me.
TED: ( tears start ) Ted, I can't. I tried. I really tried but. I just can't hack it C'mon, Joanna, you don't mean that. You're a terrific mother –
JOANNA: ( tears start ) Ted, I can't. I tried. I really tried but. I just can't hack it C'mon, Joanna, you don't mean that. You're a terrific mother –
TED: C'mon, Joanna, you don't mean that. You're a terrific mother –
JOANNA: ( from her gut ) I am not! I'm a terrible mother! I'm an awful mother. I yell at him all the time. I have no patience. No. No. He's better off without me. ( unable to look at Ted ) Ted, I've got to go. I've got to ( desperate ) Okay, I understand and I promise I won't try and stop you, but you can't just go. Look, come inside and talk. Just for a few minutes.
TED: ( desperate ) Okay, I understand and I promise I won't try and stop you, but you can't just go. Look, come inside and talk. Just for a few minutes.
JOANNA: ( pleading ) NO!. Please. Please don't make me stay. I swear. If you do, sooner or later. maybe tomorrow, maybe next week. maybe a year from ( looking directly at him ) I'll go right out the window.
TED: ( quiet ) Where are you going?
JOANNA: I don't know.
TED: Do you want me to help you get a
HIS POV: Looking down to the street from the eighth floor. We SEE Joanna step off the curb and hail a passing taxi.
TED: ( calling out ) Joanna!?. Joanna?!
ON TED: As he stands for a moment watching the taxi as it disappears. Then, slowly, he closes the window, turns, and AS THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HIM, walks into the bedroom. The bedroom is a mess: the closet door stands open, inside Joanna's section is empty except for some shoe-boxes and a few dresses that are scattered across the floor. Several dresser drawers have been pulled out and their contents HOLD IN A WIDE SHOT as Ted wearily picks up one of the dresses and hangs it back on its hanger in its proper place, ready for Joanna's return. As he continues straightening up the THE CAMERA SLOWLY FADES TO BLACK. FADE IN: INT. LIVING ROOM – VERY LATE AT NIGHT WIDE SHOT Ted Kramer paces back and forth, eyeing the phone. Then, coming to a decision, he crosses to it, picks up the receiver and starts to dial.
WIDE SHOT: Ted Kramer paces back and forth, eyeing the phone. Then, coming to a decision, he crosses to it, picks up the receiver and starts to dial.
WIDE SHOT: The building is dark except for the Kramer apartment which is ablaze with lights. HOLD as we HEAR: Sound: The phone ringing. Then:
WOMAN'S VOICE: ( obviously asleep ) Huh. Hello?
TED: ( righteous ) All right, Thelma. That's it. I've had it. You can call your good friend Joanna Kramer and tell her enough is enough, okay? I mean, I don't know what I did, but you can tell her she's made her point.
WOMAN'S VOICE: Ted, what are you talking about?!
TED: Don't play innocent with me, Thelma. You know perfectly well what's going Ted, I don't understand a word you're saying. Where's Joanna?
WOMAN'S VOICE: ( exasperated ) Ted, I don't understand a word you're saying. Where's Joanna?
TED: Ha! You tell me.
THELMA: ( looking around, suspiciously ) All right. What's going on?
ON TED: From his attitude it is clear that there is no love lost between them.
TED: All right, Thelma, you want to know what's going on? I'll tell you what's going on. I'll tell you exactly what's going on.
THELMA: Look, Ted, all I –
TED: ( starting to really roll ) I came home tonight. We just got the Fire and Ice account at the agency. Do you know what that means?! Do you understand what that means? It means that it was maybe one of the five best days in my whole life.
THELMA: Ted, all I wanted to know was where
TED: ( not letting her get a word in edgewise ) I walk in the house and before I can say "How are you?", "Did you have a nice day?" before I can say anything. Pow she's out the door.
THELMA: OhmyGod. Didn't she say anything? She must've said something.
TED: ( sarcastic ) Yeah, she said it wasn't any use talking anymore.
THELMA: Ted, don't be so hostile.
TED: ( pow ) ( whack ) Thelma, I'm not hostile. ( thud ) I am anything but hostile. ( sock ) But if you want to know what I am. I'll tell you what I am. What I am is, I am hurt. I am very hurt. And I just want to know one thing, okay? Just one thing. Why? That's all I want to know. Why?
THELMA: ( how to say this ) Ted, Joanna and I used to talk a lot and. well, she told me a lot of. ah, things about the two of you.
TED: ( instantly nervous ) Things? What kind of things?
THELMA: ( clearly she knows more than she's willing to say ) I mean. things. Ted, Joanna's very unhappy and –
TED: ( flash of anger ) Listen, Joanna Kramer's got a goddamn good life. She's got a husband that loves her. She's got a terrific kid. She's got a wonderful home –
THELMA: ( getting mad herself ) What d'you know about how Joanna felt? You went off to an office every morning and you'd come dragging home at seven or eight every night and as long as dinner was on the table you thought everything was swell.
TED: Did it ever occur to you guys that Joanna Kramer's not the easiest person in the world to live with?! Did it?! For one thing she's always thirty minutes late. You can set your watch by it –
THELMA: ( exasperated ) So she's late. What's the big deal. That's just a way of saying, "Pay attention to me."
TED: ( not listening ) Two. She is getting to be a real hermit or recluse or whatever it is you call it. Thelma, do you know where I could be in this business if I had a wife that entertained or went out socially –
THELMA: Oh for shit's sake, Ted, you are the most selfish human being I have ever met. No wonder she said you came first, then Billy, then, if there was anything left over, she got the Joanna said that?
TED: Joanna said that?
TED: Then how come she never said anything like that to me?
THELMA: Maybe she didn't feel like she should have to. Maybe she felt like if you'd been paying any real attention to her to start with, maybe you would've Boy, you guys are really something, y'know? I'd like to know one thing, okay – just one little thing. Did you tell Joanna she should leave me?
TED: ( stung ) Boy, you guys are really something, y'know? I'd like to know one thing, okay – just one little thing. Did you tell Joanna she should leave me?
THELMA: ( stiffly )
TED: Y'know something Thelma – you are the typhoid Mary of divorce. I mean it. Joanna and I never had any trouble until you and Charley split up.
THELMA: Ted, divorce is a terrible thing. I know, I went through it. You've got to believe I did everything I could to get Joanna to stay. But I'll tell you something. You may not want to hear it, but it took a lot of courage for Joanna to do what she just did.
TED: I'd like to know what the hell kind of courage it takes to walk out on your husband and your child?
THELMA: Joanna left Billy? She didn't take him with her?
THELMA: ( stunned, quiet ) Oh Shit.
WIDE SHOT: It is a beautiful sunny morning and the super stands in front of the building hosing down the sidewalk. HOLD as a garbage truck enters FRAME and the garbage men begin loading sacks of trash into the back of the truck. As it begins to grind up the garbage with an ungodly sound, THE CAMERA PANS UP TO
MEDIUM SHOT: Billy Kramer lies in his bed, fast asleep. HOLD FOR A BEAT as we HEAR: OFF SCREEN Sound: From the street below, the garbage truck grinding up garbage. A moment later, Billy opens his eyes, struggles to his feet AS THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HIM, trudges sleepily out of his room, across the hall and into the bathroom.
HIS POV: The bed is empty, there is no sign that anyone has slept in ON BILLY A look of suspicion on his face, he turns and starts back down the hall toward the living room.
ON BILLY: A look of suspicion on his face, he turns and starts back down the hall toward the living room.
HIS POV: Ted Kramer, still fully dressed, looking like the wrath of God is asleep in the chair.
ON BILLY: As he marches across to his father.
BILLY: Where's mommy?
ON TED: His eyes open, he looks around startled.
TED: Huh?. Oh God. What time is it?
BILLY: ( suspicious ) The little hand is on the six and the big hand is on the nine. Where is mommy?
TED: ( trying to pull himself together ) Oh, Christ. Ah, yeah. you want to know why mom's not here, right?
TED: ( bullshit ) Okay, I'm going to tell you. It's like this. Mommy and daddy had a little argument and mommy decided she wanted to go off by herself for a little while. You know how sometimes you get mad and want to go off and be by yourself? Well, it's like that, okay? Okay. ( subject closed ) Now how about some breakfast?
BILLY: When is mommy coming back?
TED: ( lying ) Soon. Very soon.
HIS POV: There, on the kitchen cabinet is a box of "natural grain" cereal, a jar of honey, some wheat germ, and a banana, with carefully written instructions from Joanna underneath.
ON TED: He takes one look at the note, crumples it up and tosses it in the wastebasket.
TED: ( the camp counselor ) I'll tell you what, kiddo – why don't I fix us some French toast?
BILLY: ( impressed ) Wow! French toast, really?
TED: ( the camp counselor ) Sure. Didn't I ever tell you French toast was my specialty? I'll bet I never told you that. Now then, the first thing we need is. ( trying desperately to remember ) .eggs! Right?
TED: This is terrific. isn't this
TED: ( saying it will make it so ) I'm having a good time. Are you having a good time?
ON BILLY: Watching all of this with increasing apprehension.
BILLY: You forgot the milk.
TED: ( still the camp counselor ) That's right. You're absolutely right. It's been a long time since I made French toast.
TED: Look at this, isn't this something?!
ON BILLY: Watching. He looks as though he is about to throw up.
BILLY: What about my orange juice?
TED: ( the counterman ) Right. One O.J. coming up.
BILLY: ( scared )
TED: Don't worry. Everything's fine.
TED: Goddam! Son of a bitch!
WIDE SHOT: As Ted kneels down and begins to clean up the mess.
TED: ( to himself as much as to Billy ) It's okay. It's gonna be okay.
BILLY: When is mommy coming back?
TED: Soon. I told you before, very soon.
BILLY: ( nervous ) Will she pick me up after school?
TED: No. If I'm not here, you go home with Thelma and Kim.
BILLY: What if she forgets?
TED: ( weary ) I'll call Thelma and remind her, okay? Don't worry.
BILLY: But what happens if she's on her way to school and she gets runned over by a truck and killed? What happens
WIDE SHOT: As the two of them enter the school and disappear from view.
RECEPTIONIST: ( cheerful ) Congratulations, Mr. Kramer.
ON TED: Looking at her like she has lost her mind. Nevertheless he continues on, passing through swinging doors into a long corridor lined with secretaries' desks and offices leading off of it. Suddenly a younger man rushes up, grabs Ted's hand and starts to pump it vigorously.
YOUNG MAN: Terrific news, Ted.
O'CONNOR: Hey. Look who was out celebrating last night.
TED: ( trying to appear nonchalant ) Uh, Jim. Can I talk to you?
O'CONNOR: Jesus Christ. That's a real I always figured you guys had it You want to know the real kicker? The real kicker is, for the first time in my life – the first time – I feel like a loser.
TED: ( morose ) You want to know the real kicker? The real kicker is, for the first time in my life – the first time – I feel like a loser.
O'CONNOR: ( stiff upper lip ) Listen, don't let it get you down. ( doesn't believe it for a second ) You're going to be fine.
TED: ( toujour gai ) Me? I've never been better. I mean having my wife walk out on me after seven years of marriage agrees with me just fine.
O'CONNOR: Look, Ted, I'm the oldest whore on the beat, okay? Three marriages, two divorces. You're gonna be okay.
TED: ( wishful thinking ) I'm going to be okay. The way I see it, Joanna'll come home, it's just a matter of time.
O'CONNOR: ( emphatically ) She'll be back.
O'CONNOR: ( trying to be tactful ) But. just in case. I mean, just on the off chance she doesn't. What are you going to do about the kid?
TED: ( the wind goes out of him ) I don't know, Jim. This whole thing has happened so. Pow – like that.
O'CONNOR: ( a friend having to say something very difficult ) Look, it's none of my business, so you can tell me to butt out, okay? But if you want my advice, you'll send Billy away to stay with relatives for a while. Just until you get yourself straightened out.
TED: ( doubtfully ) I don't know, Jim.
O'CONNOR: ( the Dutch uncle ) Ted, this may sound a little rough, but we've just landed the biggest account in the history of this agency, right? And now it's up to us – that's you and me – to deliver the goods. Ted, you're my main man, and if I can't depend on you a hundred and ten percent, twenty-four hours a day, because you're worried about a kid with a runny nose –
TED: Jim, I appreciate what you're saying. I mean it, but I really think Joanna's coming back.
ON O'CONNOR: Clearly he doesn't believe this.
O'CONNOR: I hope you're right, Ted. I really hope you're right.
ON TED: As he rips open the letter.
TED: ON BILLY He sits in the living room watching television, a chocolate doughnut in one hand and a remote control device for watching television in the other. Off-screen Sound: a Saturday morning kiddie program from the television set.
ON BILLY: He sits in the living room watching television, a chocolate doughnut in one hand and a remote control device for watching television in the other. Off-screen Sound: a Saturday morning kiddie program from the television set.
BILLY: ( focused on T.V. ) Uh, huh.
TED: You got a letter from mom.
BILLY: ( excited ) When is she coming home?!
ON TED: As he starts to read, slowly, carefully, so that Billy can absorb it.
TED: "My dear, sweet Billy: Mommy has gone away. Sometimes in the world daddies go away and mommies bring up their little boys. But sometimes a mommy can go away too, and you have your daddy to bring you up."
TED: ( raising his voice so he can be heard ) "I have gone away because I must find some interesting things to do for myself in the world. Everybody has to, and so do I. Being your mommy was one thing, but there are other things and this is what I have to do. I did not get a chance to tell you this, and that is why I am writing you now."
TED: "I will always be your mommy and I will always love you. I just won't be your mommy in the house. But I will be your mommy of the heart. And
I. ": ( he looks up, about to tell the child to lower the volume )
HIS POV: Billy sits, watching television with an almost ferocious intensity on his face, doing his best to block out Ted's ON TED He watches his son for a second, then carefully refolds the letter, puts it away.
ON TED: He watches his son for a second, then carefully refolds the letter, puts it away.
TED: ( as he reaches across, turns down the sound on the T.V. ) It's okay. It's okay. We'll talk about it some other time.
THELMA: Oh, God. OhmyGod.
THELMA: What are you going to do?
TED: I don't know, Thel. This whole thing has happened so. Pow, like I mean, what are you going to do about Billy?
THELMA: I mean, what are you going to do about Billy?
TED: ( stiff ) I'm gonna keep him, why?
THELMA: Look, this is nothing personal, but I don't think you can do it.
TED: Thelma, I've lost my wife, I'm not losing my child.
THELMA: ( backing off ) All right. Okay. But let's get something straight, right now. I mean, I'm sorry about what happened between you and Joanna, but it's not my problem, understand?
THELMA: I'm not going to have you calling every fifteen minutes just because you can't find a hot water bottle,
THELMA: I've got enough trouble raising my own kid. I don't need another one. Got it?
TED: Got it.
THELMA: You're on your own, understand?
TED: I understand.
THELMA: You're sure?
TED: I'm sure.
ON THELMA: A long pause, she looks at him with all the warmth of a top sergeant facing a raw recruit. Then:
THELMA: All right. Who's Billy's pediatrician?
ON TED: He hasn't the foggiest idea.
THELMA: ( machine-gun delivery ) Ed Davies. 230 East 76th Street. 472- 8227. Fifty bucks a house call, thirty for an office visit. Write this down: I'm not telling you twice. What's the nearest hospital?
ON TED: As he grabs a piece of paper and starts writing frantically.
TED: Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
THELMA: ( not waiting ) Lenox Hill. 77th Street between Park and Lex. The emergency number is 327-
TED: Slow down. Slow down.
WIDE SHOT: Ted stands in the middle of the room, sorting out a huge pile of dirty clothes. Thelma sits on the edge of the bed, In the BACKGROUND we SEE the bathroom door as it opens and Billy Kramer steps out, freshly bathed and wearing clean Billy immediately turns on his heels and heads back into the INT. LIVING ROOM – KRAMER APT. – DAY CLOSE ON A SILVER CIGARETTE BOX That is inscribed, "Ted and Joanna Kramer, Married April 4,
THELMA: Colors in one pile, white things in another and shirts in a third. Brush the teeth. Hang up the towel and flush the toilet.
THELMA: ( without looking around ) Brush the teeth. Hang up the towel and flush the toilet.
ESTABLISHING SHOT: CUT TO:
WIDE SHOT: As Ted goes through the room, picking up Billy's clothes which have been strewn every which way. THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HIM as he carries them into Billy's INT. BILLY'S ROOM – NIGHT Billy is fast asleep, the only light coming from the night lamp on the dresser. Ted dumps the soiled clothing in a hamper, hangs up Billy's jacket, then he neatly folds the boy's sweater and crosses to the dresser.
HIS POV: There, in the drawer, sitting on top of a pile of clothing is one of the photographs of Joanna that Ted put away this Billy has retrieved it and hidden it here, hoping that Ted wouldn't find it.
HIS POV: Billy asleep, tangled up in the covers.
ON TED: He removes the photograph from the drawer, crosses to the bed and places it on the nightstand nearby so that Billy will be able to see the picture of Joanna when he wakes up in the morning. He sits for a moment longer on the side of the bed and reaches across and smooths down his son's rumpled INT. TED'S OFFICE – LATE AFTERNOON ON TED Clearly in a rush, loading his briefcase with work to do that evening. He starts for the door and THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HIM as he walks along the outer office corridor, heading for the elevator. As he passes the door to O'Connor's office:
ON TED: Clearly in a rush, loading his briefcase with work to do that evening. He starts for the door and THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HIM as he walks along the outer office corridor, heading for the elevator. As he passes the door to O'Connor's office:
TED: ( calling out ) 'Night, Jim.
O'CONNOR: ( jovial ) What's the big rush. C'mon in, put your feet up, have a drink.
TED: Can't do it tonight. Gotta pick up Billy. I'm late.
O'CONNOR: ( paying no attention to that ) Listen, I heard a terrific joke today. There's this Polish skydiver –
TED: ( urgent ) Sorry, Jim I've got to go. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
O'CONNOR: Murray? Jim O'Connor, why don't you drop by and have a drink.
WIDE SHOT: As Ted emerges from the building, starts to hail a cab.
WIDE SHOT: As the cab pulls to a stop. Ted leaps out and rushes inside.
CLOSER IN: As the door is opened by a pleasant-looking woman in her This is MRS. KLINE. She has the slightly haggard look of someone who has just survived a birthday party with eight In fact, behind her we SEE an abundance of crepe paper and
TED: ( apologetic ) Mrs. Kline, I'm sorry I'm late, but
MRS. KLINE: That's all right, but I'm afraid Billy was a little nervous.
THEIR POV: Billy, his coat on, his goody bag in his lap sits alone on a bench in the foyer. The moment he sees his father, he gets up and starts for the
BILLY: ( to Ted, accusingly ) You're late.
TED: I'm sorry, pal, but I had a meeting and –
BILLY: ( to Mrs. Kline anxious to get away ) Goodbye, Bill. Thank you for coming. ( calling out to her son in the next room ) Mark. Say goodbye to Bill.
MRS. KLINE: Goodbye, Bill. Thank you for coming. Mark. Say goodbye to Bill.
BILLY: And he hustles his father out into the hallway. Once door is shut behind them:
BILLY: ( sullen ) I was waiting a long time.
TED: ( this ain't exactly the greeting he's expected ) It wasn't so long, I'm only. ( checking his watch ) .twenty minutes late.
BILLY: All the other mothers got here a long time ago.
WIDE SHOT: Ted and Billy sit at the dining table, a large pizza between Ted is working hard, trying to establish some kind of rapport with his son. Billy is silent, he picks at the slice of pizza in front of him.
TED: ( more of the camp counselor ) How was school today?
BILLY: Okay. Same as usual.
TED: Billy, don't eat with your fingers.
BILLY: ( morose )
TED: ( like pulling teeth ) Well, I see the Yankees finally won a game.
BILLY: Mom, I mean dad?
TED: Can I be excused? I'm not hungry. I think I'll go to bed.
BILLY: Can I be excused? I'm not hungry. I think I'll go to bed.
TED: Sure. Too much birthday cake, right?
BILLY: ( as he gets up from the table ) I guess.
WIDE SHOT: As Billy shuffles off toward his room. Ted sits for a beat picking at the food on his plate. THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH BILLY as he gets up from the table and walks into his room. HOLD IN THE DOORWAY as he takes off his shirt and pants and leaves them lying on the floor. The boy crosses to the closet, gets his pajamas and puts them REVERSE ON TED Standing in the doorway, watching.
TED: ON BILLY He starts to crawl into bed.
ON BILLY: He starts to crawl into bed.
BILLY: ( aloof )
ON TED: THE CAMERA PANS WITH HIM as he crosses to where Billy dropped his clothes on the floor, picks them up.
TED: Listen, pal, I'm sorry, okay? I know how you feel.
TED: I know how you feel.
TED: Look, I remember one time when. I was a couple of years younger than you are now and. I was staying with this cousin of mine and my parents were supposed to come and pick me up by three, but it got later and later and they didn't and they didn't show up and I remember I got really scared that something had happened to them and I remember when they finally came instead of being happy to see them I was very angry and. Billy, I promise I'll never do that to you again, okay?. Billy? Okay?
TED: Billy? Okay?
CLOSEUP BILLY: His face is turned to the wall. HOLD FOR A BEAT as we SEE him nod.
WOMAN: ( looking around nervous ) It's very big. They didn't tell me it was this big.
TED: ( apologetically ) No. No, actually it's only two ( sniffing ) Phew. This place is a real pig ( defensively ) Look, my wife just walked out on me. Okay? It's been a tough week.
SECOND WOMAN: ( sniffing ) Phew. This place is a real pig ( defensively ) Look, my wife just walked out on me. Okay? It's been a tough week.
TED: ( defensively ) Look, my wife just walked out on me. Okay? It's been a tough week.
THIRD WOMAN: Don't tell me your troubles, mister. I got enough of my own.
FOURTH WOMAN: The first thing is, I don't do floors.
O'CONNOR: FOURTH WOMAN ( ignoring him )
FOURTH WOMAN: ( ignoring him ) Or windows. I come in at ten and I get Wednesdays off.
O'CONNOR: ( brisk ) I'll be with you in a minute, Jim. ( back to the woman ) You couldn't make that Saturday, could you?
TED: ( brisk ) I'll be with you in a minute, Jim. ( back to the woman ) You couldn't make that Saturday, could you?
MRS. WILLEWSKA: What kind of boy is your son?
TED: ( taken aback ) Well, he's. ah, he's a good kid. He's shy and. I think he's probably very creative and.
MRS. WILLEWSKA: Could I see him?
TED: Sure. He's right in here.
MRS. WILLEWSKA: Oh. He's very beautiful.
ON BILLY: As he stirs, in his sleep.
REACTION, TED: This is the first time since Joanna left that this has occurred to him.
TED: Mrs. Willewska, could you start on
BILLY: ( worried ) Mom, I mean dad.
TED: ( his mind elsewhere ) Uh huh.
BILLY: That's not the right soap. We use the kind in the green and yellow C'mon, there's not much difference –
TED: C'mon, there's not much difference –
BILLY: ( firmly ) We use the green and yellow.
BILLY: ( shaking his head again ) The pink stuff.
TED: Okay, what color cereal do we get?
WIDE SHOT: It is that same afternoon and Billy ( his clothes are much dirtier by now ) is running back and forth with a group of other children.
ON TED: He sits on one of the playground benches, the work he took from the office stacked beside him on the bench. Sitting next to him is a personable-looking man of about Ted's age. He is nattily dressed in a suit complete with vest, tie and polished Gucci loafers. We will call him THE SATURDAY FATHER. Note: The Saturday Father and his daughter ( a pretty young girl of about ten ) will appear from time to time throughout the film. He is a divorced father, putting in his time, not giving a shit about the child. The Saturday Father insists on treating Ted as though they were members of the same secret fraternity. And he comes to represent Ted's nightmare of what might happen to him.
TED: ( looking in the direction of the voice ) Walk him over to Bethesda Fountain, buy him an ice. It'll kill twenty I've got a lot more than twenty minutes to kill.
SATURDAY FATHER: Walk him over to Bethesda Fountain, buy him an ice. It'll kill twenty I've got a lot more than twenty minutes to kill.
TED: I've got a lot more than twenty minutes to kill.
SATURDAY FATHER: ( checking his watch ) .I get off duty at five-thirty. ( bored, anxious to make conversation ) How long you been divorced?
TED: ( surprised ) Three months. How can you tell?
SATURDAY FATHER: You've got that look. My lady and I split two years ago in August and I'm an old pro at this shit. First thing, stay away from the Children's Zoo. It's pure hell – if I never see another chicken, I'll be happy. I'm here, darling. Don't worry.
HIS POV: The sprinkler area. Other children are running around, but there is no sign of Billy.
TED: ( calling out )
HIS POV: Another area of the playground. Billy is nowhere in sight.
TED: ( louder )
HIS POV: Looking in another direction. Nothing.
TED: HIS POV There in the distance is Billy Kramer, running as hard as he can away from Ted.
HIS POV: There in the distance is Billy Kramer, running as hard as he can away from Ted.
ON TED: TRACKING IN FRONT OF HIM as he starts to chase after Billy.
ON TED: TRACKING IN FRONT OF HIM as he continues to chase his son.
BILLY: Mommy! Mommy!
CLOSEUP WOMAN: Quite clearly it is not Joanna.
CLOSEUP BILLY: His face becomes impassive again. All the excitement vanishes.
BILLY: Oh. I thought you were my mommy.
CLOSEUP TED: His face reveals all of the pain that Billy's can't.
HIS POV: Across the room eighteen to twenty mothers ( Ted Kramer is the only man present ) are gathered, sitting on tiny chairs and at work tables watching as their children put on a show.
ON BILLY: Suddenly he forgets his lines, looks around nervously. A moment later a very pretty young teacher leans over, whispers in his ear.
TEACHER: Ladies and gentlemen.
BILLY: Ladies and gentlemen.
TEACHER: Welcome to the greatest show on earth.
BILLY: Welcome to the.
TEACHER: On earth.
BILLY: On earth.
TEACHER: On earth.
BILLY: On earth.
TEACHER: On earth.
BILLY: On earth.
WIDE SHOT: The show is over and the parents and children mill around eating popcorn, drinking lemonade from paper cups. Ted stands off to one side, talking to the teacher as Billy runs around.
TEACHER: Mr. Kramer, I just wanted to tell you what a wonderful boy your son I don't know. I've been worried. I mean, with what he's been through and everything. I –
TED: ( clearly attracted to her ) I don't know. I've been worried. ( glancing around, making sure Billy is out of earshot ) I mean, with what he's been through and everything. I –
TEACHER: ( solicitously ) No. No. Billy is doing just fine.
TED: ( giving himself a few points ) Well, you know it's not easy raising a kid on your own and I thought if we could get together and, uh, discuss
WOMAN: ( effusive ) Barbara! Congratulations! When is the baby due?
TEACHER: Excuse me. You said you wanted to talk, Mr. Kramer.
TED: ( embarrassed ) Yes, but. ah, not now. ( checking his watch ) I've got an appointment. I forgot all about it.
ON TED: TRACKING IN FRONT OF HIM as he walks down the street carrying a large and elaborate papier-mâché art thing that Billy made in school.
SECRETARY: Mr. O'Connor called. There's a meeting with the Revlon people in the board room and you're fifteen minutes late.
TED: ( in a rush ) I know. I know.
SECRETARY: Mr. Schmidt can't have the figures on the television buy until Monday.
TED: No. Uh, uh. Tell him I asked for it Friday. I want it Friday. Period.
SECRETARY: Mr. Lombardo from packaging wants to meet on Friday.
TED: By now they have reached the board room. He enters without knocking, his secretary still in tow.
SECRETARY: And Mrs. Kelsey called to ask if Billy can come to Stephanie's birthday party on Tuesday.
TED: ( as he enters ) Yes. Remind me to pick up a "Crying Chrissie" doll at lunch on Tuesday.
ON O'CONNOR: Clearly he is very irritated at this.
O'CONNOR: ( sardonic ) If it's all right with you, Mother Kramer, can we get down to work now?
ON PHYLLIS: She looks up as Ted enters. It is clear from their attitude that they have known one another for a long time and are very relaxed together.
PHYLLIS: Hello, Kramer.
ON TED: He drops into a chair and shoves a stack of papers across the desk to her.
TED: Hiya, Phyllis. These are the Revlon contracts. I thought you ought to check them out.
PHYLLIS: She takes the papers and starts to rifle through them, stopping every so often and making a note in the margin. As she does, we notice that the second and third buttons of her blouse have come undone and that she is not wearing a bra.
ON PHYLLIS: She glances up to ask Ted a question about some point or other, notices the direction of his gaze and, unself- consciously buttons up her blouse. She goes back to her papers as Ted continues to watch her.
ON PHYLLIS: Not looking up from her papers.
PHYLLIS: ( baffled ) Yes, what?
TED: ( baffled ) Yes, what?
PHYLLIS: ( looks up, serious ) Yes, I'll have dinner with you.
PHYLLIS: Kramer, I've got to go. I've got an eight o'clock closing tomorrow down on Centre Street.
TED: ( half asleep ) Mmmmnph. I'll get you a cab.
PHYLLIS: ( as she crosses the hall on the way to the bathroom ) That's okay. It's just that I've got these clients that are –
HIS POV: There stands Phyllis, naked as the day she was born, a look of stunned amazement on her face.
PHYLLIS: ( softly to herself ) Oh, God.
ON BILLY: He looks her up and down, then:
BILLY: ( very serious ) Do you like fried chicken?
ON PHYLLIS: Suddenly remembering to cover herself.
PHYLLIS: ( hoping desperately it is the right answer ) Ah. Yes.
BILLY: So do I.
ON PHYLLIS: As she bursts into the room, closes the door behind her, leans against it.
PHYLLIS: ( eyes wide ) I just met your son.
ON TED: Who has leapt out of bed and is scrambling into his pants.
TED: Like that?!
TED: He wanted to know if I liked fried Do you?
PHYLLIS: He wanted to know if I liked fried Do you?
TED: Do you?
TED: ( grinning ) So what's your problem?
TED: You ever think about getting married No, not really. I guess it's different if you don't have children, but. I dunno, even if Charley and I don't live together, even if we're sleeping with other people, even if Charley was to marry again. He'd still be my husband. That stuff about "Till death do you part?" That's really true.
THELMA: No, not really. I guess it's different if you don't have children, but. I dunno, even if Charley and I don't live together, even if we're sleeping with other people, even if Charley was to marry again. He'd still be my husband. That stuff about "Till death do you part?" That's really true.
TED: ( nodding toward a cookbook that is propped open nearby ) How many onions does it say to use?
THELMA: ( without bothering to look in the book ) Three. And add some basil.
TED: ( as he does ) D'you think you and Charley'll ever get back together again?
THELMA: No. I don't think so.
TED: C'mon, Thel. So Charley had a little fling. So what? All in all he was a pretty good husband.
THELMA: Look, I know this isn't gonna make any sense, okay? I mean forget the logic part. But I keep thinking if Charley really loved me, he wouldn't have let me divorce him.
WIDE SHOT: The Saturday Father and his daughter, clearly with nothing to say to one another, stand eating ices from a nearby vendor. THE CAMERA PANS AWAY FROM THEM across to Billy, Ted and Phyllis. She is dressed in a very nice suit, silk blouse, high heeled shoes and looks distinctly out of place in Central Park on a Saturday afternoon. At the moment, Ted is trying to teach Billy how to bat.
TED: Now look, you hold it like this. .and you swing like this.
ON PHYLLIS: Watching. She can't believe what she's seeing. Finally, she can't stand it any longer.
PHYLLIS: ( impatient ) No, no, no, Kramer. That's not how you do it. Look. .you hold it like this. ( showing him her grip ) Farther down the bat. And you swing like this. ( to Ted ) Throw me one.
PHYLLIS: .you hold it like this. Farther down the bat. And you swing like this. Throw me one.
ON TED: As he gives Billy a look that says, we have to humor her. He throws a ball.
ON PHYLLIS: As she swings, connects and slams a ball in a long, looping fly that goes at least two hundred feet.
ON TED: Watching the ball disappear in the distance, he turns back to Phyllis, open-mouthed.
WIDE SHOT: O'Connor, Murray and the Art Director are in O'Connor's office as the door opens and Ted enters, carrying a pile of papers, charts, graphs, etc., etc.
TED: Okay, Jim. Here's the report on.
HIS POV: On the walls are a series of mock-ups of the various Fire and Ice ads, none of which are what Ted and O'Connor had agreed upon.
TED: ( surprised ) What the hell is this?
O'CONNOR: ( innocent ) Murray had some ideas about the Fire and Ice campaign and he had the art department make up a few roughs. ( weakly ) I think they're kind of interesting.
TED: ( bugged ) I don't. Jim, this isn't anything like what we talked about. It's not even close.
MURRAY: ( oily ) Ted, basically it's still your ( chiming in ) Murray just added a few things, that's Now hold it right there, I'm the one that went in and sold Revlon on this idea to start with, remember? You said I was going to be –
O'CONNOR: ( chiming in ) Murray just added a few things, that's Now hold it right there, I'm the one that went in and sold Revlon on this idea to start with, remember? You said I was going to be –
TED: Now hold it right there, I'm the one that went in and sold Revlon on this idea to start with, remember? You said I was going to be –
ON TED: He listens for a moment, then hands the phone to Ted.
O'CONNOR: He listens for a moment, then hands the phone to Ted.
O'CONNOR: It's for you.
ON TED: As he takes the receiver.
TED: ( puzzled )
TED: Look, Billy, I told you before, one hour of T.V. a day, that's the rule. I don't care what the other mothers do. Listen, I can't talk now, I'm in a meeting. Billy, I'll talk to you later, good-
MURRAY: ( smooth ) Ted, I appreciate what you're saying, but I really think you're just too close to it right now.
O'CONNOR: ( quickly ) Murray's right. ( reassuring ) Look it's just some ideas, okay? I mean nothing's locked in cement. I promise you this is your show.
ON TED: Not very reassured.
O'CONNOR: Trust me on this one, Ted.
BILLY: ( worried about something ) Mom, I mean dad.
TED: ( busy ) In a minute.
BILLY: What do you do when an elephant sits on your fence? You get a new fence.
BILLY: You get a new fence.
TED: ( he hasn't heard a word ) C'mon, Billy. I'm trying to work for God's sake.
TED: Goddamnit, can't you watch what you're I'm sorry.
BILLY: ( quiet ) I'm sorry.
TED: Je-sus Christ! I catch all kind of shit at the office because I'm not pulling my weight because I'm busting my butt trying to be a decent goddamn father and –
BILLY: I'm sorry.
TED: ( sardonic ) That's terrific. That's really terrific, but I notice I'm the one that's cleaning up this – ( noticing an important paper covered with grape juice ) Oh, crap, I'll have to do this one ( starting to help ) I'm sorry.
BILLY: ( starting to help ) I'm sorry.
TED: Look, it's after your bedtime, okay? Just do me a favor and go to bed,
HIS POV: Billy struggling to get his pajamas on, having a hard time.
TED: Look, I'm sorry I yelled, okay?
BILLY: ( quiet ) That's okay.
TED: It's just. I've been catching a lot of flack at the office.
BILLY: That's okay.
PHYLLIS: How about lunch, Kramer. I'm buying.
WAITER: Perrier and lime. .and scotch with soda.
TED: Okay, Phyllis, what's up?
PHYLLIS: She breaks off, uncertain whether or not to go on. Then, making up her mind, she reaches across, takes Ted's scotch and soda and drinks half of it down in one gulp.
PHYLLIS: ( in a rush ) O'Connor's out to get you. He's going to take the Fire and Ice account away from you.
TED: ( stunned )
TED: ( angry ) I don't believe it! That's crazy! Why would Jim do something like that?
PHYLLIS: ( angry herself ) You want to know why? I'll tell you ( signaling to the waiter ) Another scotch and soda for the ( back to Ted ) I'll tell you exactly why. Because you're not his buddy anymore. Because he can't count on you to sit around the office every night until eight or nine and shoot the shit with him.
TED: I can't. I've got Billy to take care You dope. O'Connor doesn't give a damn about Billy. All he wants is somebody that'll hang around with him every night so he won't have to go home.
PHYLLIS: ( exasperated ) You dope. O'Connor doesn't give a damn about Billy. All he wants is somebody that'll hang around with him every night so he won't have to go home.
TED: ( stiff ) I don't believe you.
PHYLLIS: ( taking a stiff drink ) All right. Okay. But tell me something, Kramer. Who do you think is palling around with O'Connor these
TED: How should I know?
PHYLLIS: REACTION, TED Stunned, but trying to be nonchalant.
REACTION, TED: Stunned, but trying to be nonchalant.
TED: So. what's so terrible about that?
PHYLLIS: ( would like to take him by the shoulders and shake him until his teeth rattle ) Oh, for God's sake, Kramer. You have got to be the world's most naive human being. ( leaning forward ) Murray has gone in and changed every single ad you've done on the entire Fire and Ice campaign. Every layout. Every idea. Every single thing, right down the line.
TED: No. No, I don't believe it. Jim O'Connor would never let anything like that happen. He gave me my shot in this business. If it wasn't for Jim O'Connor I'd be – I don't know where I'd be. He's a wonderful man.
PHYLLIS: ( apologetic for having upset Ted ) Kramer, I'm sorry. All I was trying to do was –
TED: ( cutting her off ) I don't want to hear another word against him. Not another word. He's a wonderful man. a wonderful man.
ON TED: TRACKING WITH HIM as he steams out of his door and marches along the corridor to O'Connor's office.
SECRETARY: ( as Ted brushes past her ) I'm sorry, Mr. O'Connor is in
TED: ( furious ) All right, Jim. You said I was running this show, right? You said no decisions without my approval, right? ( brandishing the ad ) Well what the hell is this? What's going on, Jim?
O'CONNOR: ( embarrassed ) Well, ah. I thought it over and I decided we're doing it Murray's way.
TED: Jim, this is garbage. This isn't anything like what we talked to Revlon about. None of it. You can't –
O'CONNOR: ( tough ) That's my decision, Ted and that's
ON BILLY: Who sits looking down at the plate of food in front of him as though it was a coiled rattlesnake about to strike.
BILLY: What is it?
ON TED: Preoccupied, jumpy. He is eating, but he doesn't taste a
TED: Salisbury steak.
BILLY: I hate it.
TED: You don't hate it. We had Salisbury steak last week and you liked it No I didn't. I hate the brown stuff. It's gross.
BILLY: ( stubborn ) No I didn't. I hate the brown stuff. It's gross.
TED: ( strained patience ) All it is is onions and gravy.
BILLY: I'm allergic to onions.
TED: You are not allergic of onions. You've had them lots of times.
BILLY: ( sullen ) I want a pizza.
TED: ( trying not to lose patience ) No. This is fine. Just take a bite, you'll like it fine.
BILLY: I think I'm going to throw up.
TED: ( getting pissed off ) Oh, for God's sake. Here. There, okay? Now that's just plain old hamburger.
TED: There, okay? Now that's just plain old hamburger.
BILLY: Some of the brown stuff is still Then eat around it.
TED: ( through clenched teeth ) Then eat around it.
BILLY: ( anger building ) Now listen to me, young man. Do you know what I had to go through to put this goddamn food on the goddamn ( obstinate ) I don't care. I hate it. I want pizza.
TED: ( anger building ) Now listen to me, young man. Do you know what I had to go through to put this goddamn food on the goddamn ( obstinate ) I don't care. I hate it. I want pizza.
BILLY: ( obstinate ) I don't care. I hate it. I want pizza.
TED: ( blowing up ) Not on your life. That's it. I've had it with crap around this house. From now on, no more pizza! Get it? Starting right now you can eat real food like a normal human being!
BILLY: By now both of them are out of control.
TED: You want to know something?! You are a spoiled selfish little brat! Now eat –
ON TED: He is out of his chair like a shot, crosses to Billy and jerks him to his feet.
TED: ( yelling ) Goddamnit! Go to your room!
BILLY: ( at the top of his voice ) Owwww. You're hurting me. You're hurting me. I hate you. I hate ( seething ) You're no bargain either, pal.
TED: ( seething ) You're no bargain either, pal.
BILLY: I want my mommy. I want my mommy..
BILLY: ( sobbing ) I want my. mm. ommy. I want mmmy. mommy.
TED: ( at the door ) Tough shit. You're stuck with me.
WIDE SHOT: The dining area. Ted sits down and tries to resume his meal
ON TED: As he finishes doing the last of the dishes, dries his hands and looks around to make sure that everything has been put away. He flips off the light and, as THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH HIM, he walks from room to room, turning off the lights, until he reaches the door to Billy's room which is still closed. Ted hesitates for a moment, then eases open the door and steps inside.
TED'S POV: Billy lies sprawled across the bed, all tangled up in the ON TED As he crosses to the sleeping child and starts to straighten the covers.
ON TED: As he crosses to the sleeping child and starts to straighten the covers.
BILLY: ( tentatively ) ( all anger gone ) I'm sorry.
TED: ( all anger gone ) I'm sorry.
BILLY: I'm sorry.
TED: ( kisses him ) That's okay, pal. Go back to sleep. It's very late.
BILLY: Uh huh?
TED: Uh huh?
BILLY: ( very quiet ) Are you. gonna go. away?
ON TED: Stunned at the question.
TED: Of course I'm not going away. I love you very much. I'll be right here.
BILLY: ( it comes pouring out ) That's why mommy left. isn't it? 'Cause I was bad.
TED: ( he puts his arm around Billy and holds him close ) Oh, Christ. Oh, Christ. ( he thinks for a moment, then: ) No, pal. Your mom loves you very much. The reason she left didn't have anything to do with you. ( pause, this is very painful ) Look, I don't know if this will make any sense to you, okay? But I'll try and explain. You see the reason your mom left was because. Well, I guess it was because I kept trying to make her into a certain kind of person. Make her be the way I thought a wife was supposed to be. Only she wasn't like that. She was. ( smiles to himself ) Well, she wasn't like that. And now, when I think about it, I can see she tried very hard to be like I wanted – very hard. And when she couldn't, then she tried to tell me about it. Only I wouldn't listen. I guess I thought that if I was happy, that meant she was happy too. Only she wasn't. The truth is, the only reason she didn't leave a lot sooner was because she loves you so much. Joanna stayed until she couldn't stand me any longer and then she left. But it wasn't you, pal. It wasn't you. Is mom ever coming back?
BILLY: Is mom ever coming back?
TED: You mean for good?
TED: I don't think so.
BILLY: ( thoughtfully )
TED: Now go to sleep. It's very late.
BILLY: Good night.
TED: Sleep tight.
BILLY: Don't let the bedbugs bite.
TED: See you in the morning light.
BILLY: Ted pauses in the doorway, smiles.
TED: I love you.
BILLY: I love you.
TED'S POV: As the boy, by now a considerable distance away, turns and ON TED Waving back, a grin of enormous pride on his face. He glances around, embarrassed to make sure no one is watching and wipes tears from his eyes.
ON TED: Waving back, a grin of enormous pride on his face. He glances around, embarrassed to make sure no one is watching and wipes tears from his eyes.
TED: ( a little too casual ) Thel, you ever hear from Joanna?
THELMA: ( also with deliberate nonchalance ) Not for a couple of months. The last time I heard from her she was living in San Francisco.
TED: ( surprised ) ( watching him ) Uh, huh. She said she had a good job, was playing a lot of tennis. She wanted to know all about Billy.
THELMA: ( watching him ) Uh, huh. She said she had a good job, was playing a lot of tennis. She wanted to know all about Billy.
TED: ( the real question ) She ever ask about me?
THELMA: ( lying ) Uh, huh. Yeah.
TED: What d'you tell her?
THELMA: I told her you're doing a pretty good job.
HIS POV: Billy and Kim are standing near the jungle Jim. Billy has a toy airplane in his hand.
BILLY: Daddy, look! Presenting Billy Kramer's Fantastic Superjet!
ON BILLY: Weaving in and around the benches. He turns and starts back towards Ted. As he does:
ON BILLY: As he starts to fall, still holding onto the airplane.
ON BILLY: As he hits the concrete.
ON TED: He leaps to his feet, starts toward the boy.
ON BILLY: As he looks up.
BILLY: ( terrified )
WIDER SHOT: Billy lies on the examining table with the doctor bending over him.
SURGEON: There. That wasn't so bad, was it?
SURGEON: Now then, you just wait here, Billy. I want to talk to your dad for a
SURGEON: ( low voice, again calm and reassuring ) Your boy is very lucky, Mr. Kramer. One inch over and it would have caught the eye.
REACTION TED: But I'm going to have to take some How many?
SURGEON: But I'm going to have to take some How many?
TED: ( flat ) How many?
SURGEON: Ted closes his eyes, there is a sharp intake of breath.
SURGEON: Because of the position of the wound and your son's age, I don't think there will be much of a scar. Otherwise I'd call in a plastic
SURGEON: Now, I'd advise you to wait outside. It'll be eas –
TED: ( like a shot ) ( reasonable ) Mr. Kramer, there's –
SURGEON: ( reasonable ) Mr. Kramer, there's –
TED: ( softly, but with real vehemence ) Fuck you. He's my son. I'm staying with him.
BILLY: ( softly, as each stitch is taken ) Ohhh. Ohhhh. Ohhhhh.
TED: ( whispering to his child ) It's okay, son. I'm here. Just a little more to go. Don't worry, son. I'm here.
WIDE SHOT: It is late, only a few lights are still on.
ON BILLY: He lies in bed, fast asleep, his head swathed in bandages. THE CAMERA PANS AWAY FROM HIM across to Ted, who sits in a nearby rocking chair, watching his son. HOLD FOR A BEAT, then Ted gets to his feet, walks quietly to the door and steps out into the hall, closing the door behind him.
WIDE SHOT: Thelma having washed and dried the dishes is now wiping off the top of the counter top, more to keep busy than anything else. She looks around as Ted enters.
THELMA: How is he?
TED: ( nods ) He's okay. Thel, can I ask you a I don't mean a little favor. I mean a big F favor. Thelma, if I die –
THELMA: I don't mean a little favor. I mean a big F favor. Thelma, if I die –
TED: I don't mean a little favor. I mean a big F favor. Thelma, if I die –
TED: Thelma, if I die –
THELMA: ( aghast ) ( quickly ) I didn't say I'm going to die, but if I should –
TED: ( quickly ) I didn't say I'm going to die, but if I should –
THELMA: ( deeply upset ) Don't say that! I don't want to hear you say that!
TED: ( firmly ) Thel, listen to me. If, on the million to one shot that I should – ( correcting himself ) That anything should happen to me. Would you take care of Billy?
THELMA: ( amazed ) Me?! You want me to take care of I thought about it a lot and you're the only person I know that I trust with him. I mean, if anything happened to me, he'd be okay with you. You're a good mother.
TED: I thought about it a lot and you're the only person I know that I trust with him. I mean, if anything happened to me, he'd be okay with you. You're a good mother.
TED: ( hastily ) I know it's not an easy thing to
TED: Look, if it's too much responsibility
TED: You're sure?
TED: Thank you, Thel. Thank you very much.
WIDE SHOT: It is a gray, cloudy day in mid-November. Snow is falling. Sound-effect: a telephone ringing. Then:
TED'S VOICE: JOANNA'S VOICE TED'S VOICE
JOANNA'S VOICE: TED'S VOICE
TED'S VOICE: CUT TO:
MAITRE D'HOTEL: Good evening, Mr. Kramer. We haven't seen you for a long time. Mrs. Kramer, she waits for you in the back.
TED: Thank you, John.
ON TED: He stands watching her, his knees weak. It is impossible not to fall in love with her all over again.
TWO SHOT: As he crosses to her table, sits down.
JOANNA: Hello, Ted. You look well.
TED: So do you.
WAITER: The usual, Mr. Kramer.
TED: ( not taking his eyes off Joanna ) Thanks, Gino.
JOANNA: How's the new job?
TED: There is a self-conscious pause. From the bar, the piano player begins playing a new song. From Ted and Joanna's reaction, it is clearly a song that has meant a great deal to them in the past. They listen for a moment, then:
TED: Look at us, Joanna. Just like any old married couple having dinner. Who would believe it.
JOANNA: Yes. How's Billy?
ON TED: The question he has been dreading.
TED: He's great. except. .Except he had. he fell and he cut his face. He. He has a scar, Joanna, from about here to here.
TED: ( he has to say it to someone ) I can't help but feel somehow. it's my fault. I keep thinking I could've done something – stopped You can't tell it from a distance,
JOANNA: You can't tell it from a distance,
TED: CROSS-CUTTING BETWEEN THEM:
JOANNA: I've seen him.
TED: You have?
JOANNA: A few times. Sometimes I sit in that coffee shop across the street and watch when you take him to school.
ON TED: He looks like a terrific kid.
JOANNA: He looks like a terrific kid.
TED: He is. You sat in that coffee shop across from school –
JOANNA: ( completing the sentence ) Watching my son. Ted, I've been living in New York for the past two ( amazed ) You've been living here, in the city?
TED: ( amazed ) You've been living here, in the city?
JOANNA: ( a deep breath ) Ted. The reason I wanted to see you. I want Billy back.
TED: You want what?!
JOANNA: ( firm ) I want my son. I'm through sitting in coffee shops looking at him from across the street. I want my son.
TED: Are you out of your mind?! You're the one that walked out on him, Ted, listen to me. You and I, we had a really crappy marriage – Look, don't get so defensive, okay? It was probably as much my fault as it was yours. Anyway when I left I was really screwed up –
JOANNA: ( trying to explain ) Ted, listen to me. You and I, we had a really crappy marriage – ( hastily ) Look, don't get so defensive, okay? It was probably as much my fault as it was yours. Anyway when I left I was really screwed up –
TED: Joanna, I don't give a –
JOANNA: ( she will be heard ) Ted, all my life I'd either been somebody's daughter or somebody's wife, or somebody else's mother. Then all of a sudden, I was a thirty- two-year-old, highly neurotic woman who had just walked out on her husband and child. I went to California because that was about as far away as I could get. Only. I guess it wasn't far enough. So I started going to a shrink. ( leaning forward, very sincere ) Ted, I've had time to think. I've been through some changes. I've learned a lot about myself.
TED: ( like a shot ) Such as? ( boring in ) Come on, Joanna, what did you learn? I'd really like to know. ( relentless ) One thing, okay? Just tell me one goddam thing you've learned.
TED: ( boring in ) Come on, Joanna, what did you learn? I'd really like to know. ( relentless ) One thing, okay? Just tell me one goddam thing you've learned.
TED: ( relentless ) One thing, okay? Just tell me one goddam thing you've learned.
JOANNA: ( quiet, determined ) I've learned that I want my son.
ON TED: He reacts as though he has been slapped.
TED: Joanna, go be a mother. Get married, have kids. Don't get married, have kids. Do whatever you want. I don't give a damn. Just leave me out of it – and leave my baby out of it.
JOANNA: Ted, if you can't discuss this rationally -
TED: ( getting to his feet ) Joanna, go fuck yourself!
WIDE SHOT: A large, very plush office: lots of antiques, beautiful nineteenth century paintings on the wall along with autographed photographs of at least three ex-Presidents of the United States. Sitting behind a large and imposing desk is JOHN SHAUNESSY, a handsome, formidable man in his early sixties. He is well-dressed, a cornflower in his buttonhole, that sort of thing. At the moment, Shaunessy leans back in his chair as Ted finishes his story.
TED: ( leaning forward, intense ) Look, she walked out on her own child, right? That's desertion, right? Mr. Shaunessy, I'm telling you it's an open and shut case.
SHAUNESSY: First, there's no such thing as an open and shut case. Especially where custody is involved. Got it?
SHAUNESSY: Second, the burden is on us to prove your ex-wife is an unfit mother. That means I'm going to have to play rough and, if I play rough, you can bet they will too. Can you take that, Mr. Kramer?
SHAUNESSY: Third, it'll cost you five thousand
REACTION TED: That's an astronomical amount of money to him.
SHAUNESSY: That's if we win. If we lose, you could end up having to pay your wife's court costs as well.
TED: ( determined ) Good. You've hired yourself a hell of a lawyer, Mr. Kramer. ( down to business ) How old is the child?
SHAUNESSY: Good. You've hired yourself a hell of a lawyer, Mr. Kramer. How old is the child?
TED: ON SHAUNESSY He shakes his head.
ON SHAUNESSY: He shakes his head.
SHAUNESSY: That's tough. In most cases involving a child that young, the court tends to side with the mother.
ON TED: Agitated. This is not what he wanted to hear.
TED: But she signed over custody. Here.
SHAUNESSY: ( glancing at it ) I'm not saying we don't have a shot, but it won't be easy. ( thinks for a moment ) Mr. Kramer, do me a favor. There is something I find very helpful in matters like this. I sit down and make a list of all the pros and cons on an issue. I actually write them down and look at them. I want you to do that, okay? Then, after that, if you're really sure you want to retain custody of your child – then we'll go in there and whip their asses.
WIDE SHOT: Ted sits at the dining table, the supper dishes have been pushed aside. He has a legal pad in front of him and is writing. THE CAMERA DOLLIES IN CLOSER.
ON TED: He sits for a moment, staring at the list, then he crumples the paper, gets to his feet.
TED: I love you Billy Kramer.
BILLY: ( half-asleep ) I love you too daddy. Sleep tight. Don't let the bedbugs ( almost asleep again ) See you in the morning light.
TED: Sleep tight. Don't let the bedbugs See you in the morning light.
BILLY: ( almost asleep again ) See you in the morning light.
WIDE SHOT: O'Connor stands with his back to Ted, looking out the window. From the beginning this is clearly an awkward and unpleasant
O'CONNOR: ( scared to do what he is about to do ) Look, ah. Ted. I just got word from the guys at Revlon and. ah they did some marketing tests on our campaign and the results were.
O'CONNOR: ( stiff ) Disappointing. It only pulled a fourteen share and they were hoping for a twenty five minimum, and. ah. they're not very happy and. Well, the guys have decided they want to. ah, re-think the entire concept and. Look, I don't like having to do this, okay?. But. I mean, what I mean is. ah, I'm going to have to. ah, let you go –
TED: ( not really sure he heard right ) Are you firing me, Jim?
ON O'CONNOR: He still has his back to Ted.
O'CONNOR: C'mon, Ted, don't get emotional. Look, this isn't exactly an easy thing for me to do, y'know? I swear Murray and I did everything we could, but those sons of bitches were out for blood. I mean it was all I could do to keep the account inside the shop. Look, I promise, if I hear of anything I'll let you know first
O'CONNOR: HIS POV The room is empty, the door stands open and Ted is gone.
HIS POV: The room is empty, the door stands open and Ted is gone.
O'CONNOR'S VOICE: CUT TO:
WIDE SHOT: As Ted grabs a picture of Billy from his desk, takes his jacket and coat and stalks out the door.
WIDE SHOT: Ted sits across from the interviewer, a polished young man in his middle twenties, very efficient, he sounds a bit like a tape recording.
INTERVIEWER: ( glancing at a form Ted has filled out ) Ummm, hmmm. umm, hmmm. ( the good news ) Well, this looks very good.. Of course ( the bad news ) .you understand this is the worst time of the year to look for a job.
TED: ( panic ) What?! What do you mean, I don't ( patronizing ) Mr. Kramer, nobody even thinks about leaving their job until after they get their Christmas bonus.
INTERVIEWER: ( patronizing ) Mr. Kramer, nobody even thinks about leaving their job until after they get their Christmas bonus.
TED: Look, you don't understand. I need a job. I've got a kid and –
INTERVIEWER: ( smooth ) I understand and I'm absolutely sure something wonderful will turn up. ( ending any further discussion ) .after the first of the year.
ESTABLISHING SHOT: CUT TO:
ON TED: Who stands at the sink doing the last of the dishes. A dishtowel is tucked into his belt, serving as an apron. HOLD ON HIM as we HEAR: Sound-effect: The phone ringing. Ted wipes his hands, picks up the phone.
TED: Uh, huh?
SECRETARY'S VOICE: ( from the phone ) Mr. Kramer? Please hold for Mr.
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: Ted? They've set the court date. I just heard today. It's. January sixth.
TED: ( despair ) Oh, Christ.. .John, there's some- thing I ought to tell you. My. ah, situation has. changed. I lost my
TED: SHAUNESSY'S VOICE ( thoughtfully ) ( softly, but with real feeling )
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: ( thoughtfully ) Ted, I won't lie to you, we don't have a hope in hell of winning a custody hearing if you're out of ( softly, but with real feeling ) Good Christ, Joanna, just get the hell out of my life.
TED: ( softly, but with real feeling ) Good Christ, Joanna, just get the hell out of my life.
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: Ted? Are you there?
TED: SHAUNESSY'S VOICE
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: Any prospects?
TED: ( trying to make himself believe it ) Don't worry. I plan to have something within twenty-four hours, John.
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: ( amazed ) How the hell are you going to do ( grim ) I don't know.
TED: ( grim ) I don't know.
WIDE SHOT: The same young man sits across the desk from Ted.
INTERVIEWER: ( smirk ) Mis-ter Kramer, as I mentioned yesterday, this is a very bad time of year to look for work. Now I'm sure we'll have something for you by mid-February, March at the latest.
TED: I need a job, now.
INTERVIEWER: ( going through the motions ) No. No. No.
INTERVIEWER: ( doubtfully ) There might be something at J. Walter Thompson. But. ( shaking his head ) .I don't think they're really serious. The position's been open for two months and. ( shrugs ) They may just be on a fishing ( cheerful ) I'm sure you'll be much happier if you wait until after the first –
TED: ( checking his watch ) Call up the people at J. Walter Thompson. Set up an appointment at ( politeness strained almost to the breaking point ) Mis-ter Kramer, it's. ( checking his watch ) .almost four now. It's the Friday before Christmas. Nobody is going to want to –
INTERVIEWER: ( politeness strained almost to the breaking point ) Mis-ter Kramer, it's. ( checking his watch ) .almost four now. It's the Friday before Christmas. Nobody is going to want to –
TED: ( leaning forward, tough as nails ) Either you call and set up the appointment, or I'll call. And if I call, you lose the commission.
INTERVIEWER: ( arch ) My, we are a hot shot aren't we?
TED: You bet your ass.
AFTERNOON: It is dark outside and the lights are on in the office. From beyond the door, we can hear the sounds of a Christmas office party in full swing.
ON TED: As he finishes. He sits back, pleased with himself.
ACKERMAN: Well, Mr. Kramer, I must say this has been very impressive. I'd like to think about it and get back to Mr. Ackerman, is there anyone else that I should see before you come to a decision.
TED: ( leaning forward ) Mr. Ackerman, is there anyone else that I should see before you come to a decision.
ACKERMAN: Mr. Spencer, our Advertising Director.
TED: ( no time to waste ) Could I see him right away?
ACKERMAN: ( taken aback ) I'm sorry, but he's leaving this evening for a two-week vacation. I'll set up something the moment he gets back.
TED: I'd like to see him now – before he Mr. Kramer, I don't think –
ACKERMAN: Mr. Kramer, I don't think –
TED: ( means it ) I want this position very much.
ACKERMAN: Wait here.
ACKERMAN: ( as they enter ) Mr. Spencer, Mr. Kramer.
SPENCER: ( not wasting any time ) So you're the go-getter. All right, you've got ten minutes.
SPENCER: ( sipping his drink ) That's very interesting, Mr. Kramer. I must say, it's very interesting. Let me think about it. I'll let ( indicating Ackerman ) .know and he'll get in touch with
ON TED: As he decides to take a gamble.
TED: Excuse me, I believe you said I had ten minutes.
ON SPENCER: Almost at the door, looking around.
SPENCER: ON TED Checking his watch.
ON TED: Checking his watch.
TED: That means I've got two minutes left. I understand you're paying twenty-
TED: ( a deep breath, then a real huckster ) All right, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do – I'll take the job at twenty- two-five. Now, that's twenty-five hundred less than you're offering. The only thing is, you have to say yes right now. Not tomorrow. Not next week. Not after the holidays. It's worth it to me for a yes right now and I'll take twenty-five hundred
TED: ( watching them ) Today only. One day only. Twenty-two Mr. Kramer, can we talk privately for a moment?
SPENCER: Mr. Kramer, can we talk privately for a moment?
TED: CUT TO:
ON TED: As he steps out of Ackerman's office, sits down. Now, all of the fear, all of the anxiety that he has been fighting down comes welling up. What if he pushed too hard? What will he do if he doesn't get a job? If Ted Kramer could fall to his knees and pray, he would.
ACKERMAN: Mr. Kramer?
ON SPENCER: He looks at Ted carefully for a long time, then:
SPENCER: ( grins ) Welcome aboard, Mr. Kramer.
CLOSEUP TED: There is an instant of relief, then, with astounding cool:
TED: Well, gentlemen, I'm pleased to be with you.
ANOTHER ANGLE: As they shake hands, say their good-byes. THE CAMERA TRACKS WITH TED as he makes his way through the Christmas party that is still going strong. Then, suddenly, as he passes the very pretty woman we noticed earlier, he turns and kisses QUICK CUTS As a look passes between them, a sudden chemistry, something we have not seen in Ted before.
QUICK CUTS: As a look passes between them, a sudden chemistry, something we have not seen in Ted before.
TED: ( steps back from the astounded girl, grins ) Merry Christmas.
HIS POV: There, standing in the window, watching, is Joanna.
TED: ( kissing Billy goodbye ) You're a terrific kid, Billy Kramer.
HIS POV: This time there is no one there.
ESTABLISHING SHOT: HOLD FOR A BEAT as we HEAR: OFF SCREEN Sound: A telephone ringing. Then, a moment later:
TED'S VOICE: SHAUNESSY'S VOICE
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: Ted? John Shaunessy here. I just got a call from your wife's lawyer. She wants to see the kid.
TED: What?! She wants what?!
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: ( he's been through this a million times ) She's the mother. That means she's within her legal rights.
TED: ( agitated ) John, what if she kidnaps him. I've heard all these –
SHAUNESSY: ( the patience of a saint ) Look, Ted, I don't honestly think she would go to the trouble of suing you for custody of the child if she was planning on kidnapping him.
TED: ( doubtful ) I don't know, John. I mean, to be brutally honest, I'm not so sure what kind of mental shape Joanna's in right now. Y'know she admitted she was seeing a shrink.
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: ( a flicker of interest ) You ever see her talk to the walls?
TED: No, but –
SHAUNESSY'S VOICE: Then you don't have a choice. Have Billy at the Seventy-Fifth Street entrance to Central Park, Saturday at ten.
CLOSEUP BILLY: As he spots his mother.
BILLY: QUICK CUT: JOANNA As she turns, spots Billy, starts to run.
ON BILLY: TRACKING WITH HIM as he lets go of Ted's hand and starts to run flat out toward his mother. She kneels, opens her arms wide for him and he goes barreling into her, almost knocking her down from the impact.
JOANNA: ( somewhere between laughter and tears ) Oh, Billy. Oh my Billy. Oh my
WIDER SHOT: Joanna gets to her feet and takes Billy's hand.
JOANNA: ( to Ted, but looking at Billy ) I'll have him back at six.
ON TED: Realizing that Billy has not said good-bye, has not looked at him once.
WIDER SHOT: Ted stands helpless, watching them leave.
WIDER SHOT: Ted, now almost lost from view on the crowded street, still hasn't moved.
WIDE SHOT: Ted and Phyllis, getting ready to go to bed. They look like a couple that has been married at least five years. Ted is busy talking as he takes off his tie, jacket and starts to unbutton his shirt. Phyllis is getting undressed also, hanging things in the closet, putting things away in drawers. But as Ted continues to talk, she watches him apprehensively, it is clear that something is wrong.
TED: ( he has become an armchair lawyer ) So, naturally, you assume that since Joanna left, that would be a compelling point against her, right?
PHYLLIS: ( thoughtful ) But it doesn't work that way. A major decision was handed down by the Appellate Court in 1969 – in the case of Haskins vs. Haskins.
TED: But it doesn't work that way. A major decision was handed down by the Appellate Court in 1969 – in the case of Haskins vs. Haskins.
PHYLLIS: Kramer –
TED: Now in Haskins vs. Haskins the court ruled in favor of the mother, thus establishing a precedent for awarding the child to the mother even though she previously abandoned the baby.
PHYLLIS: Kramer. There's something I ought to tell you.
TED: I've been offered a job in Washington with H.E.W.
PHYLLIS: I've been offered a job in Washington with H.E.W.
TED: ( a deep breath ) I'm going to take it.
PHYLLIS: ( a deep breath ) I'm going to take it.
PHYLLIS: It's a very good job – too good to pass up. I'll be handling funding for the whole. Look, I. ."like" you a lot. And you. ."like" me, okay? Maybe if it was a year from now, maybe things would be different.
TED: ( quiet ) But it's not a year from now, is it?
PHYLLIS: I'll miss you, Kramer.
ALVAREZ: Mr. Kramer?
TED: I'm Dr. Alvarez, Judge Atkins asked me to look in on your son and prepare an evaluation sheet.
ALVAREZ: I'm Dr. Alvarez, Judge Atkins asked me to look in on your son and prepare an evaluation sheet.
TED: Oh, yes. Won't you come in. Where is the child?
ALVAREZ: Where is the child?
TED: He's in his room, playing.
ALVAREZ: Good. I'll see him in there.
ALVAREZ: Mr. Kramer, do you ever have sex in here with anyone?
TED: Doctor, I attempt to conduct my social life discreetly. At the moment I am seeing no one.
ALVAREZ: Does that distress you?
TED: Not particularly.
ALVAREZ: What does?
TED: The prospect of losing my child.
ALVAREZ: ( makes some notes, then: ) Very well, I'd like to see him if I
THEIR POV: The room is a mess, blocks are stacked everywhere. Billy sits in the middle playing with his toys.
TED: Billy. This is Dr. Alvarez. She would like to talk to you.
BILLY: ( looking up from his toys )
DR. ALVAREZ: ( pointedly ) I'd like to talk to Billy privately.
TED: ( embarrassed at being caught ) Oh, yeah. What do you have here, Billy?
TED: ( the defense attorney ) Objection. You're leading the witness.
TED: BILLY ( O.S. )
WIDE SHOT: It is a Saturday afternoon. HOLD FOR A BEAT as we SEE Ted Kramer and Billy approaching. Billy is talking a mile a minute. Ted listens intently, absorbed in the boy's description. As they turn into the entrance of the office INT. CORRIDOR, J. WALTER THOMPSON – DAY WIDE SHOT A long corridor with desks for secretaries lined up next to doors leading to smaller individual offices. As they approach a door in the foreground that bears a small sign reading, "Ted Kramer":
WIDE SHOT: A long corridor with desks for secretaries lined up next to doors leading to smaller individual offices. As they approach a door in the foreground that bears a small sign reading, "Ted Kramer":
TED: ( interrupting Billy, who is still in the middle of his story ) See. That's my name.
BILLY: ( looking at the sign ) It's my name too.
TED: As he opens the door:
BILLY: ( he stops dead in his tracks at the sight of the office ) ( pleased ) You like it?
TED: ( pleased ) You like it?
BILLY: Wow! Is this really where you work? Is this really your desk?
BILLY: Is this really your desk?
TED: Is that really your chair?
BILLY: Is that really your chair?
TED: Uh huh.
BILLY: Wow! That's neat. Can I sit in it?
TED: Billy plops himself down in Ted's chair, swivels around.
BILLY: Did mommy ever see this?
TED: No, she never did.
BILLY: Are you going to get remarried?
TED: I don't know. I hadn't thought much about it.
BILLY: Are you going to remarried Phyllis?
TED: ( shaking his head )
BILLY: Will you and mommy get remarried?
TED: No, son. Daddy and mommy will never get remarried.
BILLY: ( looking around Ted's office ) Boy, I bet you if mommy ever saw this she'd remarried you.
ON TED: Who stands with a cup of coffee in his hands, looking out the window, but not seeing anything. HOLD FOR A BEAT, then he checks his watch and starts for the bedroom.
ON JOANNA: As she selects a very conservative suit from her closet.
WIDE SHOT: As Ted, now fully dressed, wearing a dark blue suit, white shirt, conservative tie, leans over Billy and wakes him.
WIDE SHOT: It is a bleak January morning, the streets around the courthouse are mobbed with people on their way to work. We SEE Ted Kramer, a tiny figure among hundreds, coming out of the subway. He crosses the street and starts up the steps of the large and forbidding courthouse.
WIDE SHOT: As Ted gets off the elevator and starts down the corridor, toward the courtroom. In the f.g., – standing by the door of the courtroom itself is John Shaunessy, he greets Ted, they shake hands and talk together for a moment. Then, as they enter the courtroom:
CLERK: Oyez, oyez. The third Circuit Court of the State of New York, Judge Atkins presiding is now in session. All
WIDE SHOT: As the judge enters, takes his seat. Opening business of the court.
WIDE SHOT: As Gressen ( Joanna's lawyer ) gets to his feet.
GRESSEN: Your honor. As our first witness I would like to call Joanna Kramer.
SHAUNESSY: ( stage whisper ) Real direct. Motherhood. They're going right for the throat.
WIDE SHOT: As Joanna gets to her feet, crosses to the witness stand and is sworn in. Note: Throughout the following, we continually CROSS-CUT to Ted Kramer, leaning forward, listening intently. It becomes evident that, in spite of himself, there are moments he feels great compassion for Joanna.
GRESSEN: Now then, Mrs. Kramer, would you tell the court how long you were Six years.
JOANNA: Six years.
GRESSEN: And would you describe those years as happy?
JOANNA: The first couple, yes, but after that it became increasingly difficult.
GRESSEN: Mrs. Kramer, did you ever work in a job while you were married to your No, I did not.
JOANNA: No, I did not.
GRESSEN: Did you wish to?
JOANNA: Yes. I tried to talk to Ted – my ex- husband – about it, but he wouldn't listen. He refuses to discuss it in any serious way. I remember one time he said I probably couldn't get a job that would pay enough to hire a baby-sitter for Billy.
GRESSEN: Tell me, Mrs. Kramer, are you employed at the present time?
JOANNA: Yes, I work for Jantzen as a sportswear designer.
GRESSEN: And what is your present salary?
JOANNA: I make thirty-one thousand dollars a Mrs. Kramer, do you love your child?
GRESSEN: ( switching tactics ) Mrs. Kramer, do you love your child?
JOANNA: ( emphatically ) Yes. Very much.
GRESSEN: And yet you chose to leave him?
JOANNA: ( speaking carefully, with great thought ) Yes. Look, during the last five years we were married, I had. I was getting more and more. unhappy, more and more frustrated. I needed to talk to somebody. I needed to find out if it was me, if I was going crazy or what. But every time I turned to Ted – my ex-husband, he couldn't handle it. He became very. I don't know, very threatened. I mean, whenever I would bring up anything he would act like it was some kind of personal attack. Anyway, we became more and more separate. more and more isolated from one another. Finally, I had no other choice, I had to leave. And because of my ex- husband's attitude – his unwillingness to deal with my feelings, I had come to have almost no self-esteem. ( with feeling ) At the time I left, I sincerely believed that there was something wrong with me – that my son would be better off without me. It was only when I got to California and started into therapy I began to realize I wasn't a terrible person. And that just because I needed some creative and emotional outlet other than my child, that didn't make me unfit to be a mother.
GRESSEN: ( to the judge ) Your honor, I would like to place in evidence a report on Mrs. Kramer's therapy by her therapist, Dr. Elinore Freedman of La Jolla, California.
GRESSEN: Mr. Kramer, why did you set up residence in New York?
JOANNA: Because my son is here. And his father is here. As a mother, I don't want my child to be separated from his Mrs. Kramer, can you tell the court why you are asking for custody?
GRESSEN: Mrs. Kramer, can you tell the court why you are asking for custody?
JOANNA: Because he's my child. Because I love him. I know I left my son, I know that's a terrible thing to do. Believe me, I have to live with that every day of my life. But just because I'm a woman, don't I have a right to the same hopes and dreams as a man? Don't I have a right to a life of my own? Is that so awful? Is my pain any less just because I'm a woman? Are my feelings any cheaper? I left my child – I know there is no excuse for that. But since then, I have gotten help. I have worked hard to become a whole human being. I don't think I should be punished for that. I don't think my son should be punished for that. Billy's only six. He needs me. I'm not saying he doesn't need his father, but he needs me more. I'm his mother.
GRESSEN: Thank you, Mrs. Kramer. I have no further questions.
ON SHAUNESSY: As he stands, collects his papers from the table and, taking his own sweet time, crosses to Joanna.
SHAUNESSY: Now then, Mrs. Kramer, you said you were married seven years. Is that In all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way.
JOANNA: In all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way.
SHAUNESSY: In all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way.
JOANNA: Did your husband strike or physically abuse his child in any way?
SHAUNESSY: Did your husband strike or physically abuse his child in any way?
JOANNA: Would you describe your husband as an alcoholic?
SHAUNESSY: Would you describe your husband as an alcoholic?
JOANNA: A heavy drinker?
SHAUNESSY: A heavy drinker?
JOANNA: Was he unfaithful?
SHAUNESSY: Was he unfaithful?
JOANNA: Did he ever fail to provide for you?
SHAUNESSY: Did he ever fail to provide for you?
JOANNA: ( wry smile ) Well, I can certainly understand why you left him.
SHAUNESSY: ( wry smile ) Well, I can certainly understand why you left him.
GRESSEN: ( switching his line of questioning ) How long do you plan to live in New York, Mrs. Kramer?
SHAUNESSY: ( switching his line of questioning ) How long do you plan to live in New York, Mrs. Kramer?
JOANNA: Note: During the early part of Shaunessy's cross-examination, Joanna has been very forthright, very sure of herself. Now, as he starts getting tougher, she begins to falter.
SHAUNESSY: ( smiles, like a shark smiles ) Mrs. Kramer, how many boy friends have you had – permanently?
ON JOANNA: Her head snaps back as though she's been hit.
JOANNA: I don't recall.
SHAUNESSY: ( boring in ) How many lovers have you had – ( looks toward Gressen for help ) I don't recall.
JOANNA: ( looks toward Gressen for help ) I don't recall.
SHAUNESSY: More than three, less than thirty- three – permanently?
ON GRESSEN: He is again on his feet, outraged.
GRESSEN: Overruled. The witness will answer, Somewhere in between.
JUDGE: Overruled. The witness will answer, Somewhere in between.
JOANNA: ( almost a whisper ) Somewhere in between.
SHAUNESSY: Do you have a lover now?
GRESSEN: ( furious ) ( to the judge ) Your honor, I would request a direct answer to a direct question. Does she have a lover?
SHAUNESSY: ( to the judge ) Your honor, I would request a direct answer to a direct question. Does she have a lover?
JUDGE: I'll allow that. The witness will answer please.
JOANNA: ( in a whisper ) Is that. permanent?
SHAUNESSY: Is that. permanent?
JOANNA: ( by now she is becoming thoroughly rattled ) I. I don't know.
SHAUNESSY: Then, we don't really know, do we, when you say "permanently" if you're planning to remain in New York, or even to keep the child for that matter, since you've never really done anything in your life that was continuing, stable, that could be regarded as permanent.
GRESSEN: Objection! I must ask that the counsel be prevented from harassing the Mrs. Kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult?
JUDGE: ( a new attack ) Mrs. Kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult?
SHAUNESSY: ( a new attack ) Mrs. Kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult?
GRESSEN: ( red in the face ) I'll ask it another way. What was the longest personal relationship you have had in your life – other than parents and girlfriends?
JUDGE: I'll ask it another way. What was the longest personal relationship you have had in your life – other than parents and girlfriends?
SHAUNESSY: I'll ask it another way. What was the longest personal relationship you have had in your life – other than parents and girlfriends?
JOANNA: ( rattled ) Ah. I guess I'd have to say. with my child.
SHAUNESSY: ( wonder, irony ) Whom you've seen twice in a year? Mrs. Kramer, your ex-husband, wasn't he the longest personal relationship in your life?
JOANNA: ( reluctantly ) I suppose.
SHAUNESSY: Would you speak up, Mrs. Kramer? I couldn't hear you.
JOANNA: ( louder ) How long was that?
SHAUNESSY: How long was that?
JOANNA: We were married two years before the baby. And then four very difficult So, you were a failure at the longest, most important relationship in your I was not a failure.
SHAUNESSY: So, you were a failure at the longest, most important relationship in your I was not a failure.
GRESSEN: I was not a failure.
JUDGE: I was not a failure.
JOANNA: I was not a failure.
SHAUNESSY: ( sarcastic ) Oh? What do you call it then – a success? The marriage ended in ( so angry she forgets her cool ) I consider it less my failure than ( seizes on this ) Congratulations, Mrs. Kramer. You have just rewritten matrimonial law. You were both divorced, Mrs. Kramer.
JOANNA: ( so angry she forgets her cool ) I consider it less my failure than ( seizes on this ) Congratulations, Mrs. Kramer. You have just rewritten matrimonial law. You were both divorced, Mrs. Kramer.
SHAUNESSY: ( seizes on this ) Congratulations, Mrs. Kramer. You have just rewritten matrimonial law. You were both divorced, Mrs. Kramer.
GRESSEN: ( on his feet ) ( to the judge ) Your honor, I'd like to ask what this model of stability and respectability has ever succeeded ( to Joanna ) Mrs. Kramer, were you a failure at the longest, most important personal relationship in your life?
SHAUNESSY: ( to the judge ) Your honor, I'd like to ask what this model of stability and respectability has ever succeeded ( to Joanna ) Mrs. Kramer, were you a failure at the longest, most important personal relationship in your life?
JUDGE: Please answer the question, Mrs. It did not succeed.
JOANNA: ( whisper ) It did not succeed.
SHAUNESSY: ( suddenly fierce ) Not it. Not it, Mrs. Kramer – you. Were you a failure at the most important personal relationship of your life?
SHAUNESSY: Were you?
JOANNA: ( barely audible )
WIDE SHOT: Shaunessy smiles, turns his back on Joanna and walks back toward the respondent's table.
SHAUNESSY: No further questions.
TED: ( leaning over, in a whisper ) Jesus Christ. Did you have to be so rough on her?
SHAUNESSY: ( tough ) Do you want the kid or don't you?
ON JOANNA: Shaken, she gets down from the witness stand, crosses to the petitioner's table without looking at Ted. She sits, leans across to her lawyer and whispers something in his ear. As he nods.
GRESSEN: Now then, Mr. O'Connor, how long did Ted Kramer work for you?
O'CONNOR: Eight, almost nine years.
GRESSEN: And did you have a close personal And how did you find his work?
O'CONNOR: ( in a whisper ) And how did you find his work?
GRESSEN: And how did you find his work?
O'CONNOR: It was good. He was a hard worker, a lot of drive, a real hustler.
GRESSEN: And yet you fired him.
O'CONNOR: ( looking down ) Ted was a good worker. But, ah. after his wife left him and he was taking care of the kid on his own, things started to change. Look, I know he had problems, I understand that. I've got problems, everybody's got problems. But I've got a shop to run, I can't let that kind of thing get in the way. ( quietly ) I guess I felt that Ted was letting his duties at home interfere with his responsibilities in the office.
GRESSEN: Thank you. I have no further
SHAUNESSY: Mr. O'Connor, does the agency still have the Fire and Ice account?
O'CONNOR: ( up tight ) Mr. O'Connor, can you tell me where you are employed at the moment?
SHAUNESSY: Mr. O'Connor, can you tell me where you are employed at the moment?
O'CONNOR: ( stiff ) At the moment I am unemployed.
JUDGE: If the petitioner has no further witnesses, we will hear the respondent tomorrow morning at 9:30.
WIDE SHOT: Ted sits at the dining table poring over law books, writing copious notes on a legal pad. Billy sits across from him drawing in a pad with magic markers. HOLD FOR A BEAT as Billy looks up at his father. It is clear that something is bothering him.
BILLY: Mom – I mean, dad?
TED: ( not looking up ) Uh, huh?
BILLY: What did you do when you were little?
TED: ( still involved in his books ) I guess about the same kind of things you do.
BILLY: Did you watch "I Dream of Jeannie?"
TED: ( distracted ) Uh, uh. We didn't have television
ON BILLY: Eyes wide. He finds this hard to believe.
BILLY: You didn't have T.V.?
ON TED: He looks up for the first time, smiles.
TED: Nope. It hadn't been invented yet.
BILLY: ( this is serious business ) Was there apple juice when you were Yeah, there was apple juice.
TED: Yeah, there was apple juice.
BILLY: Was there Burger King?
TED: Uh, uh. There was no such a thing as Burger King.
BILLY: What else wasn't there?
ON TED: He takes a long look at his son, then closes the law book, puts his notes away.
TED: Well, let's see. There wasn't McDonald's. And there wasn't astronauts. And there wasn't frozen yogurt. And there wasn't.
ESTABLISHING SHOT: INT. COURTROOM – DAY ON THELMA She sits in the witness stand being examined by Shaunessy. From her attitude it is clear that she is very wrought up, that all of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on her.
ON THELMA: She sits in the witness stand being examined by Shaunessy. From her attitude it is clear that she is very wrought up, that all of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on her.
SHAUNESSY: Mrs. Phillips, how long have you known Ted Kramer?
THELMA: Six years. Ever since Ted and Joanna moved into the building.
SHAUNESSY: How often do you see Mr. Kramer and his son?
THELMA: ( to the judge, by way of explanation ) Charley, my husband, and I are. divorced and Kim, that's our daughter is about Billy's age and the children play together a lot. So, I guess we see each three or four times a week.
SHAUNESSY: Can you describe the relationship between Mr. Kramer and his son?
THELMA: It's beautiful. It's just beautiful. They have a beautiful relationship.
ON GRESSEN: Getting wearily to his feet.
GRESSEN: ( patronizing ) Objection, your honor. The answer is, to be generous, very vague.
SHAUNESSY: Can you recall any particular incident that relates to Mr. Kramer's care of his child?
THELMA: ( fighting a losing battle with her emotions ) Ted – Mr. Kramer, spends a great deal of time with his child. I don't just mean hours, I mean good time, involved time. He reads to Billy. They play together. They talk all the time. ( tears start ) He is a very. kind man. a very. devoted father, and. and. ( she turns to Joanna ) And Joanna if you ever saw them together. there wouldn't be a trial at all. ( she breaks down, weeping ) Oh, shit. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
SHAUNESSY: ( gently ) No further questions. Thank you Mrs. ( without looking up from his notes ) No questions.
GRESSEN: ( without looking up from his notes ) No questions.
SHAUNESSY: Mr. Kramer, would you tell the court exactly why you want to retain custody of your child.
TED: ( speaking quietly ) When Joanna – ( to the judge, correcting himself ) – my ex-wife – when she was talking before about how unhappy she was during our marriage. Well, I guess most of what she said was probably true. There were a lot of things I didn't understand – a lot of things I would do different if I could. Just like I guess there are a lot of things Joanna wishes she could change. But we can't. Some things, once they are done, can't be undone. Joanna says she loves Billy. I believe she does. So do I. But the way it was explained to me, that's not the issue. The only thing that's supposed to matter here is what's best for Billy. When Joanna said why shouldn't a woman have the same ambitions as a man, I suppose she's right. But by the same token what law is it that says a woman is a better parent simply by virtue of her sex? I guess I've had to think a lot about whatever it is that makes somebody a good parent: constancy, patience, understanding. love. Where is it written that a man has any less of those qualities than a woman? Billy has a home with me, I've tried to make it the best I could. It's not perfect. I'm not a perfect parent. ( unconsciously echoing something Joanna said earlier ) I don't have enough patience. Sometimes I forget he's just a little kid. But I love him. More than anything in this world I love him.
SHAUNESSY: Thank you, Mr. Kramer. No further
ON GRESSEN: As he gets up from the petitioner's table and crosses to the witness stand.
GRESSEN: ( hard-lining it ) Mr. Kramer, by any chance have you ever had a woman in your bed while your child was asleep in the next I suppose.
TED: I suppose.
GRESSEN: ( pointedly ) So do I.
SHAUNESSY: ( switching to another line of attack ) Mr. Kramer, isn't it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago?
JUDGE: ( switching to another line of attack ) Mr. Kramer, isn't it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago?
GRESSEN: ( switching to another line of attack ) Mr. Kramer, isn't it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago?
TED: ( not losing his cool ) Technically, the agency lost a big account and seventy four people were let go. I was one of them.
GRESSEN: ( snotty ) You were fired, correct?
TED: Yes, but I'm with J. Walter Thompson now. I don't think that will happen Give them time.
GRESSEN: ( snide ) Give them time.
SHAUNESSY: Objection, your honor! Counsel is harassing the witness.
GRESSEN: ( to the judge, pettish ) Your honor, I'm only examining the man's employment record. He pretends to fitness when he cannot hold a
JUDGE: ON GRESSEN He is thoughtful for a moment, like a man trying to decide whether or not to drop the bomb. Then, turning back to Ted:
ON GRESSEN: He is thoughtful for a moment, like a man trying to decide whether or not to drop the bomb. Then, turning back to Ted:
GRESSEN: ( very tough ) Mr. Kramer, did your child nearly lose an eye when he was in your care?
GRESSEN: ( boring in ) Mr. Kramer, did you, or did you not tell the child's mother that you were responsible for the injury that permanently disfigured your child?
SHAUNESSY: ( vehement ) Objection! Your honor, counsel is raising a question that is not germane to these proceedings.
GRESSEN: ( to the judge ) While the child was in the care of the witness, he cut his face badly and is now scarred.
JUDGE: ( to Gressen ) Are you introducing the question of negligence here, counselor?
GRESSEN: Yes, your honor.
JUDGE: I see. Well, you'll have to do better than that. Do you have any affidavits to support negligence?
GRESSEN: I do not, your honor, however –
JUDGE: This is an isolated incident, counselor, unless you can prove Does the witness deny the injury took place?
GRESSEN: ( back to Ted ) Does the witness deny the injury took place?
JUDGE: ( before Ted can say anything ) No, counselor, I'm going to over- rule you on this line of questioning.
GRESSEN: Then I have concluded my questions.
WIDE SHOT: Shaunessy and Ted stand talking, reviewing the case. Then the two men shake hands, the lawyer waves goodbye, turns and starts back into the building. THE CAMERA PANS WITH TED as he walks toward the main exit.
ON TED: As he comes out of the building, starts down the steps.
HIS POV: There, standing waiting for him is Joanna.
JOANNA: I'm sorry. I just mentioned it in passing. I never thought he'd use Yeah, well he did, didn't he.
TED: ( sarcastic ) Yeah, well he did, didn't he.
JOANNA: Please, Ted. I never would have brought it up if I thought –
TED: I'm not interested, Joanna. Goodbye.
WIDE SHOT: As he turns and walks away from her, leaving her standing, watching him as he disappears.
THELMA: You heard anything yet?
TED: ( shakes his head ) Any day.
THELMA: ( preoccupied ) Uh, huh.
TED: ( preoccupied ) Uh, huh.
THELMA: ( this is hard to say ) Ah, Charley and I are. Well, we're thinking about. I mean, actually we're sort of talking about maybe getting back together.
TED: ( thunderstruck ) You and Charley?
TED: Thelma nods.
TED: ( conflicting emotions ) Hey, that's terrific.
THELMA: ( hastily ) Maybe. I said maybe. ( apologizing for her good fortune ) What I mean is, ah. I don't think it'll really work out, but Charley seems to want it, so.
THELMA: ( can't help grinning ) Oh, God. Ted, I am really scared.
HIS POV: The Saturday Father, restless, bored, walking with his daughter who is also bored. It is clear that they have nothing to say to one another. He looks around, spots Ted, waves and starts in his direction.
CLOSEUP TED: He reacts as though he has seen a vision of his own death.
TED: ( to Thelma, urgent ) ( to Billy and Kim ) Billy, Kim. Let's go.
WIDE SHOT: As Ted ushers them across the street, away from the Saturday INT. MEN'S BAR, MIDTOWN – DAY A crowded, rather posh watering spot. Shaunessy sits alone at a table for two, a drink in front of him.
TED: ON SHAUNESSY As he looks up at Ted, says nothing.
ON SHAUNESSY: As he looks up at Ted, says nothing.
ON TED: He realizes that they have lost.
TED: Oh, Christ!
SHAUNESSY: The judge went for motherhood straight down the line.
TED: I lost him? I lost him?
SHAUNESSY: I can't tell you how sorry I am.
TED: Oh, no..
SHAUNESSY: ( reading from a piece of paper ) Ordered, adjudged and decreed that the petitioner be awarded custody of the minor child, effective Monday the 23rd of January. That the respondent pay for the maintenance and support of said child, four hundred dollars each month. That the father shall have the following rights of visitation: every other weekend, one night each week to be mutually agreed upon and one half of the child's vacation period. ( looks up at Ted ) That's it.
TED: ( grim ) What if I fight it?
SHAUNESSY: ( matter of factly ) We can appeal, but I can't guarantee ( determined ) I'll take my chances.
TED: ( determined ) I'll take my chances.
SHAUNESSY: It's going to cost.
TED: ( his mind is made up ) Don't worry. I'll get the money.
SHAUNESSY: I've got to tell you something, Ted. This time it'll be Billy that pays. This time I'll have to put him on the stand.
TED: Oh, Christ no. I can't do that. I just. can't. Excuse me. I'm sorry. I just.
THELMA: ( calling out ) Ted!. It's me. Ted?.
THELMA: Ted, I just heard.
THELMA: I'm so. sorry. Oh, Ted, I'm so
WIDE SHOT: As Mrs. Willewska brings Billy back from school.
BILLY: ( excited ) Daddy! You're home early. Did you get fired again?
TED: ( laughing in spite of himself ) No, son, I didn't get fired. ( fake cheerful ) I'll tell you what we'll do, okay? How about if we go to a Burger King and then we watch a little T.V. and then we get packed to go to the country tomorrow. Just you and me. How 'bout that?
ESTABLISHING SHOT: HOLD FOR A BEAT, then:
ON TED: He sits at the dining table, a typewriter in front of him. As he begins to type, hunt and peck system, we:
WIDE SHOT: A POSTMAN enters the building carrying a bag of mail.
ON HER: As she finishes reading the letter.
TED: Billy, sometimes when a mother and a father are divorced, there's a discussion about who the child should live with, the mother or the father. Now there is a man who is very wise. He's called a judge. And a judge has a lot of experience with divorces and he decides who it would be best for the child to live with.
BILLY: Why does he decide?
TED: Because. Well, that's what he does. He's a very powerful man.
BILLY: Like a principal?
TED: Bigger than a principal. The judge sits in robes in a big chair. The judge has thought a lot about us, about you and me and your mom, and he has decided. .he has decided that it would be best for you to live with your mom Joanna in her apartment. And I'm very lucky. Because even though you'll live with your mom Joanna I'll get to see you once a week for dinner and a couple of weekends a month.
BILLY: I don't understand, daddy.
TED: ( trying very hard not to cry ) What don't you understand, pal?
BILLY: Where will my bed be, where will I At your mom's. She'll have a bed for you in your own room.
TED: At your mom's. She'll have a bed for you in your own room.
BILLY: Where will my toys be?
TED: I'll send your toys there and I'm sure you'll get some new ones.
BILLY: Who will read me my stories?
TED: Your mom.
BILLY: ( worried ) Daddy, what if The Face comes when I'm at mommy's?
TED: Your mom knows all about The Face, okay? Don't worry, she'll tell The Face to beat it.
BILLY: Will you come and say good-night to me every night?
TED: Look, it's getting cold. Why don't you go inside where it's warm. I'll be along in a minute.
TED: Go on, scoot.
WIDE SHOT: It is early Monday morning.
ON BILLY: Looking at his father, trying to memorize the older man's Ted turns, sees his son watching him.
TED: ( with false gaiety ) Hey? What's doin' with that bread? Let's see a little hustle around
WIDE SHOT: Billy's bags are packed and stacked neatly in the living Nearby, Billy and his father sit, silent, waiting. Sound-effect: The intercom from the lobby buzzes.
TED: This is it, pal.
TED: JOANNA'S VOICE
JOANNA'S VOICE: Ted, it's Joanna. Can you meet me in the lobby?. Alone?
TED: ( to Mrs. Willewska, in the kitchen ) I'll be back in a minute.
HIS POV: The lobby is dark, the only light coming from the window. Joanna sits off to one side, wearing sunglasses. She looks up as Ted approaches, a small smile on her face.
TED: ( abrupt ) Okay, I'm here. Now why did you –
JOANNA: Ted, do you love him?
TED: Goddamnit, Joanna. What the –
JOANNA: ( insistent ) Ted, do you love him?
JOANNA: I love him too. I don't think I ever knew how much until now. Ted, when we got married it was because I was twenty-seven years old and I thought I should get married and. when I had Billy it was because I thought I should have a baby. and I guess all I did was mess up my life and your life and –
JOANNA: ( a deep breath, then: ) Ted, when we got married it was because I was twenty-seven years old and I thought I should get married and. when I had Billy it was because I thought I should have a baby. and I guess all I did was mess up my life and your life and –
TED: Joanna, what the hell is –
JOANNA: ( urgent ) Please. Please don't stop me. This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do..
ON TED: Struck by the urgency in her voice.
JOANNA: After I left. when I was in California, I began to think, what kind of mother was I that I could walk out on my own child. It got to where I couldn't tell anybody about Billy – I couldn't stand that look in their faces when I said he wasn't living with me. Finally it seemed like the most important thing in the world to come back here and prove to Billy and to me and to the world how much I loved him. And I did. And I won. Only. it was just another .Sitting in that courtroom. Hearing everything you did, everything you went through. Something happened. I guess it doesn't matter how much I love him, or how much you love him. I guess it's like you said, the only thing that counts is what's best for Billy. I don't know, maybe that's all love is anyway. Ted, I think Billy should stay with you.
TED: ( stunned ) ( she reaches out, takes his hand ) He's already got one mother, he doesn't need two. He's yours. ( her last ounce of reserve crumbles ) I won't fight you for him any more. He's yours.
JOANNA: ( she reaches out, takes his hand ) He's already got one mother, he doesn't need two. He's yours. ( her last ounce of reserve crumbles ) I won't fight you for him any more. He's yours.
TED: Oh, God. Oh, my God.
JOANNA: Only can I still see him?
TED: No more waiting in Coffee Shops. I
JOANNA: ( chin high ) Okay. I think I'll go talk to my son now. ( wiping her eyes ) How do I look?
TED: They step into the elevator and, as the doors close, blocking them from view, we.
THE END: Writers : Robert Benton
