WALT DISNEY PICTURES: 500 South Buena Vista St. Burbank, CA 91505
(818) 560-1000: Tom Rickman FIRST DRAFT
- REVISED: May 15, 1991
KLOPPMAN: Ink's wet, the presses are rolling, the papers are stacking -- rise and shine, make a dime, no news without the Newsies -- etc.
JACK: Wake up, Crutchy -- The World is waitin'.
NEWSIE: Hey, whattaya?
MUSH: How'd you sleep, Jack?
JACK: On me back, Mush.
CRUTCHY: Jack, this look like I'm fakin' it?
JACK: Who says you're fakin' it?
CRUTCHY: The streets are fulla fakes these days -- it's hurtin' the rep of genuine articles like myself. I gotta find me a new sellin' spot, where they ain't used to seein' me.
JACK: (looks at the morning) What's your leg say, Crutch? Feel like rain?
CRUTCHY: (feels his leg; shakes his head) No rain -- partly cloudy, clearin' towards evenin'. (as Jack laughs) Who ya sellin' wit, Jack?
JACK: Ain't decided yet.
DAVID: Les, hurry up, willya? Why do I gotta be saddled with you?
LES: Why do I gotta be saddled with you?
DAVID: Come on -- They'll run out of papers!
KID BLINK: 'Mornin', Officer.
OFFICER (COP): I'm keepin' my eye on you, Blink.
KID BLINK: And I'll keep my eye on you, too, sir.
OFFICER: Get moving!
A PLEASURE DOING BUSINESS: I'm wiped out -- my mother'll murder me -- if I had one.
RACETRACK: Jack -- whattaya know, whattaya say. Got a hot tip on a nag in the fourth at Sheepshead -- sure t'ing!
JACK: Your last sure t'ing's still runnin', Racetrack.
MUSH: (the world's best audience) Ya hear that? Race says sure t'ing and Jack says -- ya hear what he said, ya hear it, he said --
BOOTS/CRUTCHY: (together) We heard it!
KID BLINK: Say, Cowboy -- I hear Medda's breakin' in a new act at the vaudeville tonight -- ya interested?
CRUTCHY: Stupid question.
KID BLINK: That an echo? Or is the Crip followin' ya again?
CRUTCHY: (swinging his crutch) Yeah? How'd you like it if a crip cracked your head?
JACK: Better choke it, Blink -- 'fore you need another patch.
KID BLINK: Hey, who ya sellin' wit, Jack?
CRUTCHY: Not wit you!
JACK: Nothing personal, Blink, but...
JESUS LOVES YOU: How 'bout savin' me another roll -- okay, sister?
GUTTERSNIPE: (shoves him) Hey!     Save some for the rest of us!
RACETRACK: (sniffs the air) Dear me. What is dat unpleasant aroma? I fear de sewer has backed up during de night.
CRUTCHY: -- the Delancey brothers!
OSCAR: Inna back, ya ugly little shrimp!
RACETRACK: Five to one, I say Cowboy skunks 'em -- who's bettin', who's bettin' --
JACK: You shouldn't be callin' people ugly little shrimps. Oscar. Unless you're referrin; to the family resemblance in your brother here.
JACK: That's right. It's an insult. And so's this --
DAVID: Watch it, willya? What do you think you're doing!
JACK: (breathing hard) Runnin'.
MUSH: Comin' down de chute!
MORRIS: We ain't finished with you yet, Kelly.
BOOTS: Ride 'em, cowboy!
JACK: Ya miss me, Weasel?
WEASEL: You know my name -- it's Weisel. Mister Weisel to you. How many?
JACK: Don't rush me -- I'm perusin' the mercandice... Mr. Weasel.
JACK: The usual.
WEASEL: Hundred for the wiseguy -- next!
WEASEL: Ya got ya papes -- move outta here.
DAVID: I paid for twenty -- you only gave me nineteen!
DAVID: I want that other paper.
JACK: Nineteen, Weasel. An honest mistake -- on account of Oscar can't count to twenty with his shoes on.
WEASEL: Next!
JACK: Hold it.   Race -- spot me two-bits.
JACK: Another fifty for my friend here.
DAVID: I don't want another fifty -- !
JACK: (moving away) Sure you do. Every newsie wants more papes.
DAVID: These papers are yours, I don't take charity from nobody! I don't even know who you are --
JACK: That and a lotta other things -- including Jack Kelly, which is what my mudder called me. What do they call you, kid?
LES: (thrilled) Les. This is David, he's my brother. He's older.
JACK: (barely glances at David) No kiddin'. How old are you, Les?
LES: Near ten.
JACK: No good. Anybody asks, you're seven. (as Les is appalled) Younger sells more papes, Les -- and if we're gonna be partners --
DAVID: Hold it! Who said anything about partners -- ?
JACK: You owe me two bits, right? Okay, so I consider it an investment. We sell together, split 70-30, plus you get the benefit of observin' me -- no charge.
CRUTCHY: (to David) You're gettin' the chance of a lifetime here -- you learn from Jack, you learn from the best.
DAVID: If he's the best, then why does he need us?
DAVID: Gotta split fifty-fifty.
JACK: Sixty-forty.   Or I forget the whole t'ing.
JACK: The name of the game is volume, Dave. You only took twenty papes -- why?
DAVID: Bad headline...?
JACK: First t'ing you gotta learn -- headlines don't sell papes, newsies sell papes. We're what holds this town together -- without newsies, nobody knows nuttin'!
PULITZER (O.S.): (reading sarcastically) 'Trolley Strike Drags On for Third Week' -- this so-called headline drags on for infinity!
SEITZ: The news is slow, Chief, the Trolley Strike's all we got --
PULITZER (O.S.): It's all Mr. William Randolph Hearst has, too -- see how he covers the strike!
PULITZER: Hearst is killing us in the circulation war -- and you give me headlines that would put a whirling dervish to sleep!
BUNSEN: (nervous editor) We'll get a new headline writer, Mr. Pulitzer.
PULITZER: Steal Hearst's man -- offer him double what Hearst pays.
SEITZ: That's how he stole him from us. (sighs) Chief, you spend as much as you make fighting Hearst. That's why the paper's losing money --
PULITZER: I created the World to be the best and I'll spend whatever it takes to -- (stops) What is that deafening noise?
SEITZ: Just the Newsies, Chief, I'll --
SEITZ: Creating the World, Chief.
PULITZER: This paper's losing money because there's too much fat, inefficiency -- not because I'm fighting to make us number one! Well, we're going to cut costs, maximize profits -- and still beat the socks off Hearst -- (beat) I want to know how by tonight.
JACK: Some newsies got corners, see -- same spot, same customers. Me, I like to keep moving, enjoy the life of the big city. I spot an opportunity, I sell a pape. That's the advantage of being an independent businessman, instead of workin' for wages.
DAVID: Paper, mister?
LES: (earsplitting shout) Extry -- 'Runaway Carriage Crushes Cop!'
LES: He gimme a dime! He said I should go far away and keep the change!
JACK: You're a natural, kid. You remind me of me -- and I can't say greater than that.
DAVID: (the rookie) Extra, 'Trolley strike drags on!'
JACK: (the master) Nextry, nextry -- 'Ellis Island in flames -- big con-fla-gration!'
DAVID: What -- ?   Where's that story -- ?
JACK: (making sales) Page nine -- thank you, sir. Nextry, 'Thousands flee in panic -- '
DAVID: (on page nine) 'Trash fire near immigration building frightens seagulls -- ?'
JACK: 'Terrified flight from flaming inferno!' Thank you, much obliged --
LES: Buy me last pape, mista...?
DAVID: Our father taught us not to lie.
JACK: Mine taught me not to starve. So we both got an education.
DAVID: You just make things up -- like those headlines.
JACK: I don't do nothin' the guys who write this stuff don't do. It ain't lyin' -- it's just improvin' the truth a little.
LES: The guy gave me a quarter! Quick, gimme some more last papers!
DAVID: (grabs him) Hold it -- I smell beer!
LES: The guy bet me I wouldn't drink some -- that's how I made the quarter!
JACK: Hey, no drinkin' on the job -- it's bad for business. What if somebody called a cop or somethin'?
JACK: Beat it -- the bulls!
LES: Just for one little sip of beer -- ?
SNYDER: You, Sullivan! Stop, I say!     You hear me, Sullivan?
DAVID: Who's Sullivan -- ?
JACK: Mistaken identity -- all micks look alike to these birds!
LES: (still worried) One sip! I didn't even swallow it!
SNYDER: You young miscreant! Wait'll I get you back to the Refuge!
DAVID: The Refuge -- ?
DAVID: I'm not crossing that! Anyway, I don't think they're chasing us --
JACK: No?   What're they doin' then?
DAVID: I think they're chasing you!
JACK: The Refuge is this jail for kids. That guy, Snyder, he's the warden.
LES: You were in jail...?   Why?
JACK: I was starvin'. I stole some food.
DAVID: (suspicious) Right, food. He called you 'Sullivan' --
JACK: (bridling) Yeah, food. My name's Kelly, Jack Kelly, like I told you. Think I'm lyin'?
DAVID: You have a way of 'improving the truth.' Why was he chasing you?
JACK: Because I escaped.
LES: (awestruck) Oh, boy. How?
JACK: This big shot gimme a ride out in his carriage.
DAVID: (sarcastic) Bet it was the mayor, right?
JACK: Nah. Teddy Roosevelt.    Ever heard of him?
JACK: You wouldn't kick me out without a kiss goodbye, wouldya, Medda?
MEDDA: Kelly, where've you been, kid? I miss you up in the balcony -- you know I sing all my songs to you.
JACK: This is David and Les. And this is the greatest star of the vaudeville stage today, Miss Medda Larkson, the Swedish Meadowlark.
MEDDA: (accent) Welcome!
JACK: Medda also owns the joint.
MEDDA: (no accent; to David) Don't ever own a theater, kid. Don't even think about it.
DAVID: (awed) I won't. I promise.
MEDDA: (seeing Les) What have we here -- ? Aren't you the cutest little fella that ever was -- yes, you are --
MEDDA: This kid is good. Speaking as one professional to another, I'd say you got a future.
JACK: Okay if we hang here awhile, Medda? 'Til a little problem outside goes away?
MEDDA: As long as you like -- now the lark must warble. Hey, you -- (flags down a passing candy butcher) -- give my guests whatever they want.
MEDDA: (singing) 'MY LOVEY-DOVEY BABY'... etc.
DAVID: It's late, my folks'll be worried ... What about yours?
JACK: They're out west lookin' for a place for us to live -- (takes something from his pocket) -- like this.
JACK: That's Sante Fe -- out in New Mexico? Soon's Pop finds us the right ranch, they're sendin' for me.
LES: (sleepily) Then you'll be a real cowboy...
DAVID: Why don't we divvy up at my place...? You can meet my folks...
MOB: Scabs!   Soak the scabs!   Etc.
DAVID: Jack -- let's get outta here -- !
JACK: Maybe tomorrow we get a decent headline.
ESTHER: (seeing Les) My God...! What happened?
DAVID: He's just sleeping, Momma --
MAYER: We've been waiting dinner -- where've you been?
MAYER: You made all this selling papers...?
DAVID: That's Sarah.    My sister.
MAYER: Esther -- maybe David's partner would like to stay for dinner. Add some more water to the soup.
ESTHER: (mortified) Mayer...!
JACK: What I saw today, I gotta say your boys are born Newsies, Mr. Jacobs. With my experience and their hard work -- just a little more, thanks -- (third bowl of soup) -- I figure we can peddle a thousand a week and not break a sweat.
MAYER: That many...?
JACK: More when the headline's good.
SARAH: What makes a headline good?
JACK: (embarrassed) 'Scuse the language there, uh, maybe I'm talkin' too much...
MAYER: (laughing) You talk fine, Jack -- Sarah, get that cake your mother's been hiding in the cabinet!
ESTHER: That's for your birthday tomorrow!
MAYER: I've had enough birthdays!    This is a celebration!
DAVID: It's only the beginning -- the longer I work, the more I'll make --
MAYER: You work only until I go back to the factory! Then you go back to school, like you promised.
MAYER: It will heal... they'll give me back my job... I'll make them...
LES: (in his sleep) 'Gimme all ya got, baby...'
JACK: How'd your pop get hurt?
DAVID: The factory. An accident. (bitterly) He's no good to them anymore so they just fired him. He's got no union to protect him.
MAYER: David?   Time to come in now.
DAVID: Why don't you stay here tonight...?
JACK: I got my own place... but thanks. Your family's real nice, Dave. (beat) Like mine.
DAVID: See you tomorrow. Carryin' the banner.
JACK: (smiles) Carryin' the banner.
JACK: How'd it go at the track, Race?
RACETRACK: That hot tip I told you about? Nobody told the horse.
KLOPPMAN: You missed your supper, boys.
RACETRACK: Then we didn't miss much, did we?
JONATHAN: Actual income, as well as projected income, against actual operating costs, as well as projected operating costs, produce a reduced marginality of profit which in turn --
PULITZER: Seitz!   What in blazes is he talking about?
SEITZ: Says you need to make more money, Chief.
JONATHAN: (unflappable) I have several proposals. The first is to increase the paper's price --
PULITZER: Then Hearst undersells me and I'm in the poorhouse. Brilliant.
JONATHAN: Not the customer price -- the price to the distribution apparatus.
SEITZ: You mean the Newsies...? Charge the Newsies more for their papers? Bad idea, Chief.
JONATHAN: Very well. My next proposal -- salary cuts, particularly those at the very top --
PULITZER: Wait. What  do the Newsies pay now -- fifty cents per hundred papers? If  you raised it to sixty cents --
JONATHAN: A mere tenth of a cent per paper --
PULITZER: -- then that, multiplied by forty thousand papers a day, seven days a week -- well, it would pay some of the bills around here.
SEITZ: Chief, if you do this, every Newsie we got will head straight for Hearst.
SEITZ: What about the other papers -- ?
PULITZER: If we do it, they'll all do it. It's only a tenth of a cent -- nobody gets hurt! It's good for the Newsies -- an incentive, make 'em work harder, sell more papers! Now get me Hearst on that contraption.
SKITTERY: This'll bust me -- I'm barely makin' a livin' now --
JACK: Awright, pipe down! Don't you see it's a gag? Just Weasel bein' a weasel. Joke's over, Wease. Gimme a hunnerd.
WEASEL: Hunnerd'll cost ya sixty, Cowboy.
JACK: I ain't payin' no sixty --
WEASEL: Then move outta the way --
JACK: You bet -- I move right over to the Journal.
RACETRACK: It's the same at the Journal -- we checked -- it's the same everywhere!
JACK: Why the jack-up, Weasel?
WEASEL: Why not? It's a nice day. Why don't you ast Mr. Pulitzer?
WEASEL: If you ain't buyin' papes, clear out! World employees only on this sida the gates.
JACK: It stinks here anyway -- let's go!
RACETRACK: They can do what they want -- it's their stinkin' paper --
JACK: Nobody's goin' anywhere -- they ain't gonna get away with this!
EVERYBODY: What can we do -- (etc.)
LES: Stop crowding him!    Let him think!
RACETRACK: (tentatively) Jack...? Ya still thinkin'... ?
JACK: One thing for sure. If we don't sell papes, then nobody sells papes. Nobody comes through those gates 'til they put the price back where it was.
JACK: Yeah, a strike -- good idea, Dave.
DAVID: (alarmed) No, I didn't mean -- we can't strike, we're not a union --
JACK: We go on strike, we're a union, right? Keep it comin', Dave --
DAVID: (pleading) There's not enough of us -- maybe if we got every Newsie in New York --
JACK: Yeah, we organize -- we get all the New York Newsies to join us! This is great, Dave, keep talkin' --
DAVID: It's no joke! You saw what happened to those trolley workers --
JACK: Another great idea! Any Newsie don't join with us, we soak 'im -- just like the trolley workers!
DAVID: Nooo! Stop and think, willya?     You can't just rush everybody into this!
JACK: Dave's right again! We gotta think this through! Old man Pulitzer and Hearst and all them other rich geezers, they run this city. Do we really think a buncha streetrats like us would have a chance against people like them?
LES: Strike!
BOOTS: Keep talkin', Jack -- tell us what to do --
DAVID: Uh... uh... Pulitzer and Hearst have to respect our rights --
JACK: Pulitzer and Hearst have to respect the workin' boys of New York! (to David) Keep it comin' -- what else.
DAVID: Uh... they can't treat us like we don't exist...
BOOTS: What's to stop someone else from sellin' our papes?
JACK: We talk to 'em.
RACETRACK: Some of 'em don't hear so good.
JACK: Then we soak 'em.
DAVID: No!
JACK: We gotta get word out to all the Newsies in New York! I gotta have some... whattaya call 'em --
DAVID: Ambassadors.
JACK: Right! You guys gotta be embastards and tell 'em we're on strike!
KID BLINK: I'll take Harlem!
RACETRACK: The Bronx!                MUSH I'll get da Bowery!
JACK: Bumlet, Specs, Skittery take Queens; Pie Eater and Snotty, the East side -- Snipeshooter, go with 'em; okay, who wants Brooklyn? Spot Conlon's territory?
JACK: Whatsamatter?    Scared of Brooklyn?
JACK: Well, he don't make me nervous. You and me, Boots, we take Brooklyn. Dave can keep us company. Okay, Dave?
DAVID: Sure. Right after you take our demands to Pulitzer.
JACK: (grin fades) Me? (looks up at the dome) To Pulitzer?
DAVID: (his turn to grin) You're the leader.
JACK: Maybe the kid'll soften him up a little.
DENTON: What's going on?
DAVID: They're going in to present our demands to Pulitzer.
DENTON: What demands?
DENTON: I'm Denton, New York Sun.   What's your name?
DAVID: (suspicious) David...
DENTON: David.  As in David and Goliath? (off at doors) You really think old man Pulitzer's going to listen to your demands?
DAVID: He has to.
JACK: (yelling back) So's your ol' lady! Tell Pulitzer he needs an appointment with me!
JACK: (a mouthful) -- So this snooty mug is sayin', 'You cawn't see Mr. Pulitzer, no one sees Mr. Pulitzer' -- real hoity-toity, you know the type --
LES: (also a mouthful) Real hoity-toity --
LES: That's when they threw us out.
DENTON: Doesn't it scare you going up against the most powerful man in New York?
JACK: (bravado) Yeah, lookit me, I'm tremblin'.
DENTON: Keep me informed -- I want to know everything that happens.
DAVID: Are we really an important story...?
DENTON: What's important? A year ago I covered the war in Cuba -- charging up San Juan Hill with Colonel Teddy Roosevelt. A very important story. Now it doesn't seem so important -- except Teddy's our governor and probably on his way to the White House. Is the Newsies' strike important? It all depends on you.
JACK: (stopping him) My name really gonna be in the papers?
DENTON: Any objections?
JACK: Not as long as you get it right -- Kelly, Jack Kelly. And, Denton? No pictures.
DAVID: I've never been to Brooklyn -- have you guys?
BOOTS: Spent a month there one night.
DAVID: This Spot Conlon... is he really as bad as they say...?
DAVID: I say something funny? Come on, tell me -- he bad or not? What's the joke? Tell me, willya? (Etc.)
JACK: You're movin' up in the world, Spot -- got a ocean view and everything.
SPOT: So I'm hearin' things from little birdies in Harlem and Queens and all over. They're chirpin' in my ear: 'Jackie-boy's Newsies are playin' like they're goin' on strike -- '
DAVID: (blurting) We're not playing -- we are on strike -- it's --
SPOT: What's this, Jackie boy?   Some kind of walkin' mouth?
DAVID: Uh... we started the strike but... we can't do it alone, so... we've been talkin' to Newsies all over the city...
SPOT: So they told me. And what did they tell you?
DAVID: That... they're all waiting to see what Spot Conlon does. That you're the key... (as Spot puffs himself up; David sees an opening) That Spot Conlon is the most respected and... famous... newsie in New York... and probably everywhere else...
DAVID: And... if Spot Conlon joins the strike, they'll join and we'll be unstoppable so you gotta join and ... well... you gotta...
SPOT: You're right. Brains. (hardens) But I got brains, too -- and more than half-a-one. How do I know you punks won't run the first time some goon comes atcha with a club? How do I know you're in it to win?
SPOT: Not good enough, Jackie-boy.   You gotta show me.
JACK: Maybe you lost your guts, Spotty- boy -- (as Spot freezes) -- or maybe you traded 'em to some chicken for that beak of yours. (in Spot's face) Maybe you gotta show me you ain't afraid to join the strike.
SPOT: Nice try, pal. But that's just what I'm talkin' about. (serious) Show me this strike ain't just some kids do-or-dare, then we'll talk.
RACETRACK: So where's Spot Conlon?
MUSH: Maybe we're movin' too soon, maybe we ain't ready --
SKITTERY: Definitely should put this off a coupla days, definitely --
PIE EATER: Hey, Jack -- you ready?   I'm ready!
JACK: At least somebody's got the right idea.
PIE EATER: Who else is ready for stick-ball?
JACK: Who we kiddin' here. Spot was right. Just a game to these guys...
CRUTCHY: Hey, Jack -- get a loada this!
DAVID: Throw down your papers!   Join the strike! (Etc.)
SEITZ: I don't think they're just going to go away, Chief.
WEASEL: Just give me the means, Mr. Pulitzer. I'll take care of them for you.
PULITZER: (to Seitz) Give him whatever 'means' he requires, I want this nuisance over and done with.
JACK: The House of Refuge... my home- sweet-home...
DAVID: How can you be sure they sent Crutchy here?
TENPIN: Cowboy!   Ya miss the joint?
JACK: Whattayasay, Tenpin.   You got a new guy, Crutchy --
TENPIN: The gimp?   I'll get him for ya.
JACK: That's Tenpin -- s'posed to get out last Christmas but Snyder keeps tackin' more time on his sentence --
DAVID: (shushing frantically) Be quiet -- they'll hear you --!
CRUTCHY: Hey, whattaya hangin' around here for? That Dave up there? Hiya, Dave!
JACK: Go get your hat, Crutch -- kiss Snyder good-bye.
CRUTCHY: (evasively) Yeah... hey, shoulda seen me in court today -- old Judge Movealong Monahan hisself! Took him two minutes to move me along to Snyder for 'my own good.'
JACK: Later, Crutchy -- get your stuff.
CRUTCHY: Listen, Jack... truth is, I ain't walkin' so good. Oscar and Morris kinda worked me over a little...
JACK: They hurt you...? Don't worry, we'll carry you --
CRUTCHY: (vehemantly) I don't want nobody carryin' me -- never!
CRUTCHY: It ain't so bad here. Get three squares, sorta, and there's some swell fellas... (up to David) They still talk about how Jack rode outta here on that coach!
CRUTCHY: You already heard the story.
DAVID: You mean it's true --?
JACK: Crutchy won't last in there... I seen stronger guys than him not make it.
JACK: Not in it.   On it.
DAVID: What was he doing at the Refuge?
JACK: Runnin' for governor. Showin' his concern, like all pols during elections.
DAVID: Teddy's not like other politicians. He's the biggest hero in the country.
JACK: Anyway, he's there. I see his fancy coach waitin' for 'im, so I sneaks on top of it. Teddy gets in and he's wavin' goodbye, and all the guys are wavin' goodbye, and Snyder's wavin' -- 'Good-byeeee, Colonel Roosevelt!' So just as we're goin' out the gate, I stands up and -- (waves) 'Good-byeee, Warden Snyder!' It was in the papes and everything.
DAVID: (laughs; then) He's governor now. I don't understand how he could see that place and not do anything --
JACK: He only seen what Snyder wanted him to -- good food, everything the city pays for that Snyder usually steals.
DAVID: I'll bet if he just knew -- I mean, he's a hero --
JACK: Last year he was a hero.   This year he's a politician.
WEASEL: Okay, 'newsies' -- you check the funny papers this morning?
DAVID: Join us!   Join us! etc.
JACK: (sees something) Look out -- !
DENTON: Why don't you stop this -- ?
COP (POLICEMAN): (looks at him coldly) You better move along, mister...
WEASEL: Strike's over, boys.
SPOT: So, ya showed me! Now I'll show you what Brooklyn can do --!
SPOT: Where's me pitch'a? Where's me pitch'a?         BOOTS
DAVID: Listen!  Listen up, everybody -- ! (reads) 'Like a small but rising storm, the infant newsboys' union continues to gather force -- '
MUSH: Hey, ya write sweet, Denton -- real sweet.
DAVID: (reading) 'Their leader is a child of the New York streets with a red bandana and a golden tongue, Jack Kelly -- '
JACK: Where's it say that...?
SPOT: Stop t'inkin' about yaself and let 'im read!
DENTON: -- They can just ignore you until you go away.
JACK: We ain't goin' away.   We'll never go away.
DAVID: That's what we gotta show 'em -- we gotta do somethin' they can't ignore, somethin' big --
JACK: We'll do it up big, all right -- We'll show 'em we ain't tired, or bored, and the hungrier we get, the more we fight -- (as Denton starts writing) We'll have a rally -- every Newsie in New York -- and we're gonna send a message: there's a lot of us and we ain't goin' away -- we'll keep fightin' until doomsday if it means gettin' what's ours!
CRUTCHY: That's Jack -- ! Hey, he looks just like hisself!
SNYDER: You know this boy...?
CRUTCHY: Him?   Nah.
SNYDER: (smarmy smile) You have a famous friend, this 'Jack.'... Do you know where he lives...?
CRUTCHY: I never seen the guy, honest. (hits his head with his palm) This brain of mine, always makin' mistakes. Got a mind of its own.
MEDDA: Darlings, I love you -- I wish you luck on your rally, I am behind you one hundred percent. But I'm not running a union hall here -- this is a theater, a temple of art. And well-known money pit.
JACK: We got money, Medda.      Some, anyway.
DAVID: We'll take a collection at the door. We'll pay whatever you ask.
MEDDA: It's not the money. I depend on the papers. They write good things about me, the customers flock here like sheep. They give me the pan, I'm the one who gets sheared.
DAVID: You're afraid of them, too...
JACK: Medda's gotta look out for herself same as anybody. We'll find another place.
DAVID: How can they make a whole city afraid? We're the ones putting our necks on the line -- all we need is for somebody to have the guts to stand up and show them we're not alone!
MEDDA: They have the power to destroy people...
DAVID: They can't destroy you if you fight them -- only if you let them own you!
MEDDA: (softly) You are so young...
MEDDA: Got to be on Monday night.   I'm dark on Monday nights.
MEDDA: Don't thank me. Thank Mr. Wisenheimer Guilt-maker of 1899 there.
KLOPPMAN: Can I help you?
SNYDER: Do you have a 'Jack Kelly' registered here? I wish to see him.
KLOPPMAN: 'Jack Kelly...?' Any of you boys know a 'Jack Kelly'?
SNIPESHOOTER: I knew a Jack somebody once. Prob'ly not the same guy.
RACETRACK: -- He was here but he put an egg in his shoe and beat it.
SNYDER: I have reason to believe he's an escaped prisoner. Possibly dangerous.
KLOPPMAN: Oh, dear me... dangerous? My files are in the rear -- this way, please.
RACETRACK: (palm extended) Give to the Newsies strike fund, mista?
SARAH: (startled) Did you sleep there?    Why didn't you wake us up?
JACK: Didn't wanna disturb nobody... anyway, it's like the Waldorf out here... great view, cool air --
SARAH: Go up on the roof.
SARAH: It's all getting so big. The family's very worried about the boys. And you, too.
JACK: Your mom and pop are worried about me...?
SARAH: (shyly) The whole family...
SARAH: David says you're moving away when the strike's over. To Santa Fe. I've never been out of the city.
JACK: (chewing) You'd like it out there -- they got this big yellow desert and the air's real blue, see, from the sky, and the sun, it's bigger out there.
SARAH: (smiles) It's the same sun as here.
JACK: No.  No, it ain't... (beat) Not that I been there or nothin'.
SARAH: Guess your parents wrote you about it. Bet you can't wait to see them again.
JACK: (looks away) Sure... big family reunion. Soon's I get the dough for train fare.
SARAH: David said you spent all your money to rent the theater.
SARAH: We do not.
JACK: Not that I blame you -- me bein' such an interestin' guy and all --
SARAH: (smiles) Are you...?
JACK: What'd I tell ya -- interestin', right?
CHIEF: We can't just charge in and break it up, Mr. Pulitzer -- we got no legal cause.
MAYOR: An escaped criminal...?
PULITZER: A fugitive from one of your prisons, Mayor -- a convicted thief who's been at large for some time under the alias of 'Jack Kelly.' His real name is...?
SNYDER: Sullivan, Your Honor -- Francis Sullivan. I would have caught him before now but --
PULITZER: You know Warden Snyder, don't you, Mayor? I believe you appointed him.
MAYOR: If this boy is a fugitive, then the chief can quietly arrest him and --
PULITZER: Not quietly -- I want an example made. I want this rabble he's roused to see what happens to those who dare to -- well, they should see justice in action.
MAYOR: Arrest him at the rally?   But...
PULITZER: By the way, Mayor, I'm having a few friends for cards that night -- newspaper friends, Willie Hearst, Gordon Bennett. Perhaps you'll join us -- we can talk about the coming election.
MAYOR: Chief, when you arrest this Kelly, you'd better go in force -- in case some of his misguided friends should start any trouble.
BOOTS: Extry, extry -- Newsies take Noo Yawk!
JACK: Hey, Denton -- sit down front! You're the guest of honor!
DENTON: (shakes his head) I'm working press tonight. (looks around) The only working press. As usual.
DAVID: As long as you keep writing about us, they're gonna know we exist.
PULITZER: You know the boys, Mayor -- Mr. Bennett of The Tribune, Mr. Taylor of The Times, of course you know Mr. Hearst -- and this is a new member of our little group, Mr. Gammon, who just came back from Europe...
PULITZER: Mr. Gammon owns The New York Sun.
JACK: Carryin' the banner!
AUDIENCE: (a roar) Carryin' the banner!
JACK: We come a long way but we ain't there yet -- and maybe it's only gonna get tougher from now on! That means we get tougher too -- (as a huge roar goes up) -- it also means we get smarter! That's why we're gonna listen to my pal David and stop soakin' the scabs --
SEVERAL IN CROWD: No!    They asked for it -- etc.
RACETRACK: Whatta we s'pose to do -- kiss 'em?
JACK: I personally wouldn't go that far, Race.
SPOT: (jumping up) Any scab I see, I soak 'em -- period!
DAVID: That's just what they want you to do -- so they can say we're just thugs --
SPOT: I don't care what they say -- some of us ain't made to just take it! I say anybody hurts us, we hurts them worst! Who's with me?
JACK: That's right -- start fightin' each other! Prove what the big shots say is true -- we're street rats with no brains and no respect for nothin' -- includin' ourselves! (as they quieten) Here's how it is: we don't stick together, we're nothin'. We don't trust each other, we're nothin'. We don't act together, we're nothin' -- and we might as well go back to the streets where we belong. What's it gonna be? (looks at Spot) Whattaya say, Spot?
SPOT: I say --
SPOT: I say... what you say... I say!
MEDDA: Hiya, Newsies -- what's new?
RACETRACK: Hey, Medda, anytime you're off to the races, remember -- I got all the winners!
MEDDA: You're all winners here tonight, Racetrack. Just being with you makes me feel kinda extra extra.
MUSH: ("fainting") I'm dead, I'm in Heaven -- somebody gimme a harp!
MEDDA: But you never know what life will bring. Over the years, I've developed quite an outlook --
KID BLINK: Oooo, lookout for that outlook!
MEDDA: And all kinds of people are always asking my advice, well, for instance --
MEDDA: You boys sing as sweet as songbirds.
KID BLINK: It's a beautiful, Medda, I tellya, I never heard such beautiful!
MEDDA: (moved; kisses him) Thank you, Boots. Would you keep it for me? For luck?
MEDDA: I'm afraid so, Race...
DENTON: Aren't you Warden Snyder?
DENTON: I'm Denton of The Sun. I've heard about your work with young people. I wonder if you'd agree to an interview?
DAVID: Jack -- you've gotta get out of here! Snyder! (as Jack cups his ear) Snyder!
DENTON: (interviewing) Is it Snyder as in 'snide'?
WEASEL: Show's over, Cowboy.
RACETRACK: Curtain goin' up, Jack -- !
BOOTS: Try to reach the skylight -- !
JACK: Carryin' the banner!
MEDDA: (the grand lady) Unhand that boy this instant! (as MacSwain looks up, startled) I said hands off the kid, you red- faced baboon! Get out of my theater -- out, out, out, out, out!
MEDDA: If you're tired of beating up children, maybe you'd like to try a lady next.
MEDDA: Run, David, hurry --
DAVID: They got Jack --
MEDDA: You can't help him if you're in jail, too! You were right, David -- you've got to keep fighting them -- always. (kisses him) Now go. Please.
BAILIFF: Awrise, awrise, court is now in session, Judge E.A. Monahan presiding.
MONAHAN: Any of you represented by counsel? No? Good. That'll move things along considerably.
SPOT: Judge Movealong, ya honor, I object.
MONAHAN: On what grounds?
SPOT: (proudly) On the grounds of Brooklyn, ya honor!
MONAHAN: I fine you each five dollars or two weeks confinement in --
RACETRACK: Five bucks!   We ain't got five cents!
DENTON: (standing) I'll pay the fines. All of them.
JUDGE: Pay the clerk. Next.
ALL: Thanks, I owe ya, you're a right guy, Denton, etc.
RACETRACK: Talk and eat, right? On you, huh, pal?
JACK: Hiya, fellas! Hey, Denton -- guess we made all the papes this time, huh? How'd my picture look?
DENTON: None of the papers covered the rally. Not even The Sun.
BAILIFF: Case of Jack Kelly, inciting to riot, assault, resisting arrest.
SNYDER: Judge Monahan, I'll speak for this young man --
JACK: (mock surprise) You two know each other?   Ain't that nice.
SNYDER: This boy's real name is Francis Sullivan; mother deceased; father a convict in the state penitentiary --
SNYDER: He is currently an escapee from the House of Refuge, where his original sentence of three months for theft was extended six months for disruptive behavior --
JACK: -- Like demandin' you give us the food you steal from us --
SNYDER: -- Followed by an additional six months for an attempted escape --
JACK: (fighting tears) -- Last time wasn't no attempt, remember, Snyder? Me and Teddy Roosevelt wavin' bye-bye --
SNYDER: -- Therefore, I ask that he be returned to the House of Refuge --
JACK: -- For my own good, right, Movealong? -- and for what Snyder kicks back to ya --
SNYDER: -- And that the court order his incarceration until the age of twenty-one --
DAVID/NEWSIES                       SNYDER: (on their feet)                  -- In the hope that we
MONAHAN: So ordered.   Next.
KID BLINK: He won't be there long -- the jail ain't built that Jack can't bust outta.
BOOTS: They're buildin' some mighty good jails these days...
RACETRACK: So where's Denton?
DAVID: He said he'd be here. (beat) We can't let this stop us. We gotta keep the strike going, just like Jack was here.
MUSH: (the sad truth) Yeah, but Jack ain't here.
RACETRACK: We know that, genius -- if he was here, he'd be tellin' us what to do when he ain't here.
SPOT: (gets up) You bummers is givin' me a headache.
DAVID: Where you goin'? We need you.
SPOT: Nachally  Spot Conlon is needed wherever  -- which right now is Brooklyn.   Some of my boys is worried,  I must give ear to their concerns  --
DAVID: Why didn't The Sun print the story?
DENTON: Because it never happened.
DAVID/ALL: Never happened; whattaya mean?   Etc.
DAVID: Denton, what's happened -- you get fired or somethin'?
DENTON: Reassigned -- back to my old job as The Sun's ace war correspondent. The owner thinks I should be covering only the 'really important' stories. So wish me luck, boys. At least half what I wish you. (to David) They don't always fire you, David.
DAVID: They bought you off... didn't they? Didn't they!
DENTON: They could've blackballed me from every paper in the country. I'm a newspaperman, I have to have a paper to write for.
DENTON: This is the story I wrote about the rally. I want you to read it at least.
DAVID: That's where we saw Crutchy...
MUSH: Where they takin' him...?
DAVID: One way to find out.   Meet me back at the square!
JACK: Very impressive. So where do they keep the trains in this station?
JACK: (grins) Sorry to see you ain't doin' so good, Joe.
JACK: I heard of it. You win?
PULITZER: People think wars are about right and wrong. They're not. They're about power. You know what power is?
JACK: Heard of that, too.   I don't just sell ya papes, Joe.   Sometimes I read 'em.
PULITZER: Power means that I could see to it that you serve your full sentence at the Refuge. Or I could pull strings and have you free tomorrow. It means I could give you my pocket change -- and you'd have more money than you'd likely ever earn.
JACK: You bribin' me, Joe? Thanks for the compliment, but I ain't got the power to stop the strike --
PULITZER: I disagree. You're the spirit of the strike, without you, they'd fall apart in a few days.
JACK: Ring for my coach, willya?   It's past my bedtime --
PULITZER: Shut your mouth and listen ! (as Jack looks up, startled) You're going to do exactly as I say --
PULITZER: -- and be a fugitive who's pursued and caught and returned. I'm offering you a choice -- is that what you choose?
JACK: I told ya... I can't call off the strike.
PULITZER: I'm not asking you to. All I ask is that you return to your old job -- as Newsie for the The World.
JACK: And be a scab? Forget it --
PULITZER: For a few days. Then the strike ends -- and it will end, boy, make no mistake -- and you can go wherever you want to buy a ticket. Free and clear, with money in your pocket... and no one chasing you.
PULITZER: You go back to the Refuge. Think it over in your cell. Let me know in the morning.
DAVID: Jack!
SNYDER: (to the driver) After him!
SEITZ: (stepping up to Snyder) Don't worry. He's got no place to go.
DAVID: Why're you stoppin' -- we've got to run!
JACK: You shouldn't'a done this, David. They could put you in jail --
DAVID: It's worth it -- let's go --
JACK: You go to jail, what happens to your family? You don't know nothin' about jail! Thanks for what you done, but you gotta get outta here --
DAVID: I don't understand --
JACK: I don't either -- I don't understand nothin' no more!
JACK: Just go!
CRUTCHY: Snitched it offa Snyder's plate when I was servin' him -- the biggest one! (as Jack shakes his head, looks away) Snyder was eatin' good tonight -- the stuff we don't never get? Patatas... olives... (mouth watering) ... liver and bacon. Sauerkraut... (grins) Guess what I done to his sauerkraut.
JACK: (irritably) So what's it git'cha?
CRUTCHY: Anudder three months, prob'ly. But you can't let 'em beat'cha, right, Jack?
JACK: We was beat when we was born.
DAVID: Nobody sells a pape today -- we're hurtin' them and they know it! Remember -- no soakin', no hittin' -- etc.
SPOT: Look... I'm seein' t'ings... tell me I'm seeing t'ings -- !
KID BLINK: It ain't happenin'... it can't be happenin'...
WEASEL: (as he passes) Mr. Pulitzer picked 'em out hisself. A special gift to a special new employee. Only not so new, huh, cowboy?
SPOT: He sold us out! Ya dirty scab, I'll murder ya -- !
WEASEL: I'm gonna be lookin' for you, wiseguy -- (grins) -- or maybe you'd like a nice new suit of your own.
DAVID: Keep after them -- we don't need him! (starts the chant) Stop The World -- don't scab! Etc.
LES: (to himself) He's just foolin' 'em... so he can spy on them or something... (with certainty) That's it. He's spyin' on 'em. He's gotta be.
ESTHER: That hand is not ready to work.
SARAH: (holds up the package distastefully) What is this?
LES: Hey -- I'm saving that!
MAYER: (to David) Don't be too hard on your friend. Maybe he had his reasons for doing what he did.
LES: (chewing knockwurst) I told you. He's spyin' on 'em.
MAYER: There.   You see?
SARAH: It's Denton's story. 'The Dark Truth: Why Our City Really Fears the Newsie Strike, by Bryan Denton. Last night I saw naked force exercised against mere boys, the Newsies, who earn at best a few pennies a day. I wondered why so much, against so little -- '
KLOPPMAN: He will only be a minute.   Please, no trouble.
RACETRACK: Dear me, what is dat unpleasant aroma -- ? (as Jack's fists clench) Go on, take a shot -- I bust your scab face, ya yellow-livered, rotten stinkin' piecea garbage!
WEASEL: You try any tricks, and I go straight to Mr. Pulitzer. (grins) Will you be requirin' anything else? Then I bid you good night.
WEASEL: Sleep well, cowboy...?
OSCAR: Come wit' us, cowboy -- we're gonna fix your pal Davey today -- fix 'im so's he can't walk no more.
MORRIS: Shuddup!
SARAH: Les, come on -- you're supposed to be helping me today.
LES: (sulking) I'd rather be soakin' scabs.
OSCAR: (grinning) 'Scuse me, sweetface.
LES: Get away from my sister!
MORRIS: Where's ya brudder, tootsie? Where's little Davey...?
SARAH: (calmly) You... stupid... ape!
OSCAR: Yeah, run, Davey! We got the best parta ya family right here!
SARAH: David, no -- don't -- !
LES: Jack!
DAVID: Couldn't stay away, huh.
JACK: Guess I can't be somethin' I ain't.
DAVID: A scab...?
JACK: Nah.    Smart.
DAVID: Without you, the strike's falling apart...
JACK: I got no choice. I stay here, they lock me up 'til I'm twenty- one.
LES: Jack, for the trip -- a pair of cowboy boots! Sorta.
ESTHER: Who knows what's to eat where you're going?
MAYER: (gives the clothes) A few things of mine and David's. Wish we had money to give you...
JACK: (very moved) Who needs it...? I go down to the train yards, hop me a freight, go in the best style -- free...
MAYER: I don't know what's waiting for you in Santa Fe, but you'll always have family here.
SARAH: (decisively) You're not going to run away. They'll just come after you. You have to fight them.
SARAH: You're wrong. You touched people you don't even know about.
SARAH: Denton's story.
JACK: Denton looked out for hisself just like I gotta do -- so save it.
SARAH: Just listen! 'The men who run this city are terrified of the Newsies strike -- because other child laborers in the factories and sweatshops are hearing the message of the Newsies leader --'
LES: That's you!   He's writin' about you!
SARAH: 'In the voice of Jack Kelly, these children hear strength and pride. Most of all, they hear hope...'
JACK: Keep reading.
DENTON: ' -- And that is what terrifies the powers-that-be, for they know our city thrives on the shame of child labor. Therefore, Jack Kelly's voice must be stopped, whatever the cost... (stops) Damn good writing, isn't it?
JACK: All them sweatshop kids are listenin' to me...?
JACK: The minute I show my face, I'm back in the Refuge.
DENTON: You'd have help this time. I've been investigating the Refuge -- I know somebody who's going to be very interested in Snyder's little racket.
DAVID: (wryly) What happened to the ace war correspondent?
DENTON: This war'll do for now.
SARAH: Whatever happens, it's Jack's decision. He's the one in danger.
LES: Jack...?   You thinkin'...?
JACK: Yeah... I'm thinkin' of Newsie Square full of kids...
DAVID: (picks it up) ... Another rally, right under Pulitzer's nose, and not just the Newsies --
JACK: -- Every workin' kid from every sweatshop in New York. We gotta get the word out -- let's go get the Newsies -- (catches himself) They still think I'm a scab...
LES: I'll tell 'em you was a spy!
JACK: We're Newsies, ain't we?   So we make our own paper.
DAVID: Be quiet and let me think.
JACK: Whattaya need to start a paper? Writers, right? So we got Denton. What else?
LES: Advertisements! (as they look at him) Cartoons?
DENTON: (the cold facts) A printing press. And no paper or printer is going to defy Pulitzer.
JACK: Les. Go set me straight with the Newsies, okay? Tell 'em to meet us later at the World Building.
JACK: So happens I know a guy with a printing press.
JACK: They're  right above us -- and if Weasel  catches us, it won't be just me  they'll throw in the slammer  --
SARAH: What -- ?
JACK: I said shhhh! -- or we all go to jail!
ALL: by David -- a sub-headline forms: "House of Refuge, House of Shame." press as they examine it proudly. Les as they pass him bundles of papers and he passes them out the window to --
DAVID: The cops are looking for Jack -- we gotta protect him --
KID BLINK: Any bull comes after jack, they gotta go through all of us.
BOOTS: What's with the bundle, Jack -- ya leavin'?
JACK: Sante Fe bound, Boots -- but not without givin' Pulitzer one last kiss goodbye --
KLOPPMAN: Boys -- !
EVERYBODY: Hey, Weasel... Good ni-ight!
DENTON: I thought you'd feel that way, Governor Roosevelt.
TEDDY ROOSEVELT (MAN): Dis-graceful, Denty! Those poor boys -- and I did nothing! (pure steel) Until now!
MUSH: So when's the others comin', Cowboy?
PULITZER: (not listening) Kelly's down there. He should be back in jail.
SEITZ: (with the Newsie News) Those kids got out a pretty good paper, Chief.
PULITZER: Too good! Those illiterate guttersnipes couldn't have done this on their own. Somebody's behind this, trying to pull a fast one...
JONATHAN: Mr. Hearst on the line, sir. Wants to know if you've read the Newsies' paper?
MAYOR: I'm not taking the heat for this -- you've got to talk to them -- settle it --
PULITZER: Tell Hearst I'm busy! (ominously) I'll settle it all right -- once and for all.
SEITZ: It's time to talk.
SEITZ: Then I guess you talk.
PULITZER: You're going to listen to me, boy --
JACK: I'd like to, Joe -- (opens a window; crowd noise pours in) -- but I can't hear ya.
PULITZER: We had a deal -- you broke it. You're going back to jail.
JACK: Maybe. But you can't put every kid in that square in jail. They ain't goin' away, Joe.
PULITZER: Neither am I. I can wait them out. It won't be me that's hurt.
JACK: You sure about that?
JACK: It ain't about money, Dave -- if Joe gives in, that would mean nothin's like us got power. He can't let that happen -- no matter what it costs him. Right, Joe?
PULITZER: I'm about to show you what power really is...
PULITZER: I have the police outside waiting to arrest you --
DAVID: You lousy double-crossing -- !
PULITZER: -- then I'll deal with that rabble in the street.
JACK: Ya got me, Joe -- but tell me one thing, willya? How'd ya like our paper -- nice printin', ain't it? Right off the presses of one of New York's greatest newspapers --
PULITZER: All the papers have an agreement... we print nothing about the newsies. Whose press did you use? (as Jack shrugs, smiles) It was Hearst, wasn't it...!
PULITZER: I knew it. Whoever helped you print this lying rag is trying to break the strike, get the jump on the rest of us. Well, you're going to expose this backstabber to the other owners -- in exchange, I'll call off the police.
JACK: Not enough, Joe -- you gotta deal with our demands. Otherwise, our lips are sealed.
PULITZER: (impatiently) All right, all right -- just say the traitor's name. It's Hearst, isn't it? Say it! Say the name of the scoundrel whose press you used so I can make him the disgrace of the newspaper world! Say his name, damn you!
JACK: We just wanna say, 'Thanks, Joe.' (as he stares, stunned) And Hearst and them other owners? Maybe they don't have to know. Depends.
PULITZER: Perhaps we can resolve our... small differences.
RACE: We gotta warn Jack -- !
LES: Jack -- !   Jack -- !
WEASEL: I don't know how he got in here, Mr. Seitz -- but I'll take care of him, with pleasure. Just say the word!
SEITZ: With pleasure. You're fired.
WEASEL: Come again...?
LES: He said, you're fired.
JACK: The strike's over -- we beat 'em!
LES: (remembers) The bulls! Jack -- the bulls! MacSWAIN Easy, lad! You don't have to run anymore -- not from the likes of him anyway!
DENTON: We brought the Warden over to say goodbye. Goodbye, Warden.
CRUTCHY: (to Snyder) Remember what I told ya -- first t'ing ya do in jail, you make friends with the rats, share what you got in common -- (sees Jack) Hiya, Jack! My leg tells me the strike's over!
JACK: What're you talkin' about -- who come chargin' in?
CRUTCHY: Who?   Your pal! Him!
DENTON: Governor Roosevelt's very grateful that this problem was brought to his attention. He'd like to offer you a lift, anywhere you like. This time, you ride inside.
JACK: Think he could drop me at the train yards?
JACK: It's now or never, Racetrack.
RACETRACK: Won't be the same without ya. Give ya even odds on that.
BOOTS: (offering marbles)
CRUTCHY: Don't wanna alarm ya, Jack, but what I hear, out West ain't like New York at all -- it's fulla bulls, for one t'ing -- not cops, neither, but big ugly animals with horns and --
JACK: (hugs him) I'll miss ya, Crutch.
SARAH: You don't have to run away anymore, Jack. You have a choice now.
DAVID: We won today, but the fight's not over. You're needed, Jack. We need you. Here.
JACK: Maybe that's what scares me...
LES: Comin' down the chute!
