NINOTCHKA: Written by Based on a story by Melchior Lengyel
SHOOTING DRAFT: FADE IN ON: AN ESTABLISHING SHOT OF PARIS IN THE MONTH OF APRIL THE LUXURIOUS LOBBY OF THE HOTEL CLARENCE CAMERA MOVES to a CLOSE SHOT of the desk. In the background is a revolving door leading to the street. Through the revolving door comes a strangely dressed individual, obviously one who doesn't belong in such surroundings. It is Comrade Buljanoff, a member of the Russian Board of Trade. Despite the spring climate of Paris, he still wears his typical Russian clothes, consisting of a coat with a fur collar, a fur cap, and heavy boots. Buljanoff glances around the lobby, obviously over-whelmed by its magnificence. The Manager, puzzled by Buljanoff's strange appearance, approaches him.
MANAGER: ( politely ) Is there anything I can do for you, No, no.
BULJANOFF: No, no.
MANAGER: Yes, monsieur?
IRANOFF: Just looking around.
KOPALSKI: Comrades, why should we lie to each other? It's wonderful.
IRANOFF: Let's be honest. Have we anything like it in Russia?
ALL THREE: ( agreeing with him ) No, no, no.
IRANOFF: Can you imagine what the beds would be in a hotel like that?
KOPALSKI: They tell me when you ring once the valet comes in; when you ring twice you get the waiter; and do you know what happens when you ring three times? A maid comes in a French Comrades, if we ring nine times. let's go in.
IRANOFF: ( with a gleam in his eye ) Comrades, if we ring nine times. let's go in.
BULJANOFF: ( stopping him ) Just a minute just a minute I have nothing against the idea but I still say let's go back to the Hotel Terminus. Moscow made our reservations there, we are on an official mission, and we have no right to change the orders of our superior.
IRANOFF: Where is your courage, Comrade Are you the Buljanoff who fought on the barricades? And now you are afraid to take a room with a bath?
KOPALSKI: Are you the Buljanoff who fought on the barricades? And now you are afraid to take a room with a bath?
BULJANOFF: ( stepping back into the taxi ) I don't want to go to Siberia.
IRANOFF: I don't want to go to the Hotel If Lenin were alive he would say, "Buljanoff, Comrade, for once in your life you're in Paris. Don't be a fool. Go in there and ring three He wouldn't say that. What he would say is "Buljanoff, you can't afford to live in a cheap hotel. Doesn't the prestige of the Bolsheviks mean anything to you? Do you want to live in a hotel where you press for the hot water and cold water comes and when you press for the cold water nothing comes out at all? Phooey, I still say our place is with the common people, but who am I to contradict Lenin? Let's go in.
KOPALSKI: If Lenin were alive he would say, "Buljanoff, Comrade, for once in your life you're in Paris. Don't be a fool. Go in there and ring three He wouldn't say that. What he would say is "Buljanoff, you can't afford to live in a cheap hotel. Doesn't the prestige of the Bolsheviks mean anything to you? Do you want to live in a hotel where you press for the hot water and cold water comes and when you press for the cold water nothing comes out at all? Phooey, I still say our place is with the common people, but who am I to contradict Lenin? Let's go in.
IRANOFF: He wouldn't say that. What he would say is "Buljanoff, you can't afford to live in a cheap hotel. Doesn't the prestige of the Bolsheviks mean anything to you? Do you want to live in a hotel where you press for the hot water and cold water comes and when you press for the cold water nothing comes out at all? Phooey, I still say our place is with the common people, but who am I to contradict Lenin? Let's go in.
BULJANOFF: ( weakening ) I still say our place is with the common people, but who am I to contradict Lenin? Let's go in.
KOPALSKI: Are you the manager?
MANAGER: ( eyeing the three suspiciously ) Pardon me for introducing Comrade Iranoff, member of the Russian Board of Trade.
KOPALSKI: Pardon me for introducing Comrade Iranoff, member of the Russian Board of Trade.
MANAGER: ( bowing with strained politeness ) This is Comrade Kopalski.
IRANOFF: This is Comrade Kopalski.
MANAGER: I am Comrade Buljanoff.
BULJANOFF: I am Comrade Buljanoff.
MANAGER: May I ask how much your rooms are?
BULJANOFF: May I ask how much your rooms are?
MANAGER: ( trying to get rid of them ) Well, gentlemen, I'm afraid our rates are rather high.
BULJANOFF: Why should you be afraid?
MANAGER: ( haughtily ) I might be able to accommodate you. Is there some more luggage?
IRANOFF: Oh, yes, but have you a safe here big enough to hold this?
MANAGER: I'm afraid we have no boxes of that size in our vault, but there is one suite with a private safe.
IRANOFF: That's even better.
MANAGER: But, gentlemen, I am afraid.
BULJANOFF: He's always afraid.
MANAGER: ( a little annoyed ) I just wanted to explain. The apartment may suit your convenience but I doubt that it will fit your convictions. It's the Royal Suite.
BULJANOFF: Royal Suite! Just a minute.
BULJANOFF: ( in a low voice ) Now Comrades, I warn you. if it gets out in Moscow that we stay in the Royal Suite we will get into terrible trouble.
IRANOFF: ( defending his right to a good time ) We'll just say we had to take it on account of the safe. That's a perfect excuse. There was no other safe big
BULJANOFF: Of course, we could take out the pieces and distribute them in three or four boxes in the vault and take a small room. That's an idea, isn't
IRANOFF: Yes, it's an idea, but who says we have to have an idea?
BOTH: That's right. that's right.
BULJANOFF: ( turning to the Manager ) Give us the Royal Suite.
KOPALSKI'S VOICE: Will you connect me with Mercier. yes, the jeweler.
KOPALSKI: I want to speak with Monsieur Mercier personally. Hello, Monsieur Mercier? This is Kopalski of the Russian Board of Trade. We arrived this morning. Thank you.
KOPALSKI'S VOICE: Yes, everything is here. The necklace too. All fourteen pieces. What? No, Monsieur Mercier, the court jewels of the Duchess Swana consisted of fourteen pieces. Why don't you check on that? Naturally, we have all the necessary credentials.
RAKONIN: ( to taxi driver ) Eight Rue de Chalon.
MAID: Good morning, Count.
LEON: Good morning.
MAID: Her Highness is still dressing.
LEON: ( as he walks toward Swana's door ) That's all right.
SWANA: Hello, Leon!
LEON: Good morning, Swana.
SWANA: It's really a wretched morning. wretched. I can't get myself right. I wanted to look mellow and I look brittle. My face doesn't compose well. all highlights. how can I dim myself down, Leon? Suggest something. I am so bored with this face. I wish I had someone else's face. Whose face would you have if you had your choice? Oh, well, I guess one gets the face one deserves.
LEON: Your conversation has one marvelous advantage, Swana. However many questions you ask you never expect an answer.
SWANA: Don't you find that restful?. Why didn't you come last night?
LEON: Darling, I was busy looking out for your interests.
SWANA: Did you win?
LEON: ( enthusiastically ) We can forget horse racing, roulette, the stock market. our worries are over! You remember that platinum watch with the diamond numbers? You will be in a position to give it to ( with humor ) Oh, Leon, you are so good to me. ( She kisses him )
SWANA: ( with humor ) Oh, Leon, you are so good to me. ( She kisses him )
LEON: We can be rich if you say the word. I had dinner with the Guizots last Those newspaper people?
SWANA: ( contemptuously ) Those newspaper people?
LEON: You'd be surprised how many nice people dine with the Guizots.
SWANA: What a gruesome proof of the power of the press!
LEON: Now listen, Swana. I sold Monsieur Guizot the idea of publishing your memoirs in the Gazette Parisienne. "The Life and Loves of the Grand Duchess Swana of Russia"!
SWANA: ( protestingly ) Oh, Leon!
LEON: Sweetheart, we won't have to bother about our future if you are willing to raffle off your past!
SWANA: Was it for this that I refused to endorse Dr. Bertrand's Mouthwash? I could have made a little fortune by saying that the Vincent Vacuum Cleaner was the only vacuum cleaner ever used by the Romanoffs. and now you want them to smear my life's secrets over the front page of a tabloid?
LEON: I understand how you feel, but there is a limit to everything, particularly pride and dignity. They are willing to pay any price! They have a circulation of two million!
SWANA: Imagine two million clerks and shop girls peeking into my life for a sou! Think of my lovely life being wrapped around cheese and blood sausages! I can see a big grease spot in the midst of my most intimate
LEON: Well, I am the last person to persuade you, but don't do it blindly. if this is your decision, you must be prepared to face the consequences. I will have to go to work. My little Volga boatman! Stop threatening! I don't deserve this. Are you my little Volga boatman?
SWANA: My little Volga boatman! Stop threatening! I don't deserve this. Are you my little Volga boatman?
LEON: Now, Swana.
SWANA: First tell me, are you my little Volga boatman?
LEON: ( anything to stop her ) Yes, I'm your little Volga boatman.
SWANA: ( walking back to the dressing table ) Well. two million readers. I know exactly what they want. Chapter One: "A Childhood behind Golden Bars. Lovely Little Princess Plays with Rasputin's Beard."
LEON: I've got one chapter Guizot thinks is terrific. "Caviar and Blood." Swana escapes over the ice!
SWANA: A couple of bloodhounds and we have Uncle Tom's Cabin.
LEON: ( thinking of another idea ) Darling, this would be wonderful! Just once. weren't you attacked by a Bolshevik?
SWANA: ( straining her memory ) Was I? No. not by a Bolshevik!
LEON: Too bad! Brings our price down ten thousand francs!
SWANA: Come in.
MAID: Count Rakonin asks the privilege of a few words, Your Highness.
LEON: Count Rakonin?
SWANA: He's a waiter at the Clarence, poor devil. You know him.
LEON: Oh, yes.
SWANA: Tell him I won't be able to see him for a half an hour.
MAID: The Count says if it could be as soon as possible. It is luncheon time and he is just between courses.
RAKONIN: Your Highness.
SWANA: How do you do, my friend.
RAKONIN: Your Highness, forgive this intrusion, What is it, Rakonin? Did you lose your job?
SWANA: What is it, Rakonin? Did you lose your job?
RAKONIN: No, madame, something of the utmost importance. it concerns your jewels.
SWANA: My jewels?!
RAKONIN: I remember one birthday of His Majesty, our beloved Czar. I had the honor of being on guard at the summer palace. I still see you bending before His Majesty. You wore your diadem and a necklace. your face seemed to be lighted by the jewels.
SWANA: ( puzzled ) Why do you bring this up after so many years?
RAKONIN: They are here!. Your jewels!. Here in Paris!
SWANA: Alexis! Do you know what you are This morning three Soviet agents arrived. I overheard a telephone conversation with Mercier, the jeweler. Your Highness, they are going to sell them!
RAKONIN: This morning three Soviet agents arrived. I overheard a telephone conversation with Mercier, the jeweler. Your Highness, they are going to sell them!
LEON: Did I hear something about jewels?
SWANA: Rakonin, bless him, has given me the most amazing news!
SWANA: ( into phone ) Balzac 2769. ( to Leon ) My lawyer.
RAKONIN: I am sorry. I have to leave.
SWANA: ( to Rakonin ) Thank you so much, my friend. I will get in touch with you.
SWANA: ( into phone ) This is the Duchess Swana. I want to speak to Monsieur Cornillon. it's very important. please get him right away. Hello, Monsieur Cornillon? The most incredible thing has happened! My jewels are here in Paris! Three Bolshevik swine are trying to sell them! Yes. yes. we must act immediately!. Call the police. Have them arrested!. Well, then, get an injunction!. But do something, Monsieur Cornillon! ( apparently the answer is some objection from Cornillon ) .But they are my jewels! There must be some way of getting them ( just as nervous as Swana ) What does he say?
LEON: ( just as nervous as Swana ) What does he say?
SWANA: ( to Leon ) ( into phone ) .But how can there be a question?. Are you my lawyer or theirs?. All right, I'll let you know!
LEON: What did he say?
SWANA: ( discouraged ) It looks pretty hopeless. there may be a chance. that's all. The French Government has recognized Soviet Russia and he doubts that they will risk a war for my poor sake. He might be able to make up some kind of a case but it would cost money, money, money!. That's all they are interested in those ( taking her in his arms ) Darling, calm down. Why do you need a lawyer? Haven't you your little Volga boatman?
LEON: ( taking her in his arms ) Darling, calm down. Why do you need a lawyer? Haven't you your little Volga boatman?
MERCIER: Very good. superb. excellent. it would be foolish to belittle the quality of the merchandise but your terms are impossible. My counteroffer is the absolute maximum.
KOPALSKI: But, Monsieur Mercier.
MERCIER: ( continuing ) Gentlemen, I'll let you in on a little secret. we are only undertaking this deal for the prestige involved, and, quite frankly, we are expecting to take a loss.
IRANOFF: ( whispering ) Capitalistic methods.
BULJANOFF: They accumulate millions by taking loss after loss.
BULJANOFF: ( answering phone ) Hello. this is Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski. Who?. Count d'Algout?. No, no. it must be a mistake. we can't be disturbed.
MERCIER: ( continuing ) I assure you no one else could meet the figure named by my syndicate. at least under the present economic We can wait.
KOPALSKI: We can wait.
IRANOFF: ( pompously ) Do we give the impression of people who are pressed for money?
MERCIER: Yes. Gentlemen. let's put our cards face down. Right now there is a Russian commission in New York trying to sell fifteen Rembrandts. There is another in London mortgaging the oil fields in Baku. You need money and you need it quickly. I think my offer is fair and does not even take advantage of your situation.
KOPALSKI: ( to Mercier ) Just a minute.
IRANOFF: ( in a low voice ) He's cutting our throat.
BULJANOFF: But what can we do?. We have to Comrades! Comrades! Don't let's give in so quickly. After all we have to uphold the prestige of Russia.
KOPALSKI: Comrades! Comrades! Don't let's give in so quickly. After all we have to uphold the prestige of Russia.
BULJANOFF: All right, let's uphold it for another ten minutes.
IRANOFF: We don't want to be disturbed.
LEON: My name is Count d'Algout. I If you want to see us you must come I just want a word with Monsieur But you can't.
IRANOFF: If you want to see us you must come I just want a word with Monsieur But you can't.
LEON: I just want a word with Monsieur But you can't.
IRANOFF: But you can't.
LEON: Monsieur Mercier. May I introduce myself? I am Count Leon d'Algout. I think I had the pleasure of meeting you in your beautiful shop. I was admiring a platinum watch with diamond Oh, yes, yes.
MERCIER: Oh, yes, yes.
LEON: ( glancing at the jewels ) Glorious, aren't they?
KOPALSKI: Now, monsieur, you have no right.
LEON: ( very charmingly ) Just a moment. ( to Mercier ) I hope you haven't closed this deal, Monsieur Mercier. It might bring you into serious difficulties.
LEON: These jewels are the property of the Duchess Swana of Russia, and were seized illegally by the Soviet Government. I am acting for Her Highness, the Duchess. Here is my power of attorney.
IRANOFF: ( excitedly ) You know, Monsieur Mercier, this is all non-sense.
KOPALSKI: These may have been the jewels of the Duchess Swana, but, like all private property, they were confiscated by the State.
LEON: We'll leave the problem of their ownership to the French courts. Meanwhile I have filed a petition for an injunction to prohibit you from either selling or removing the jewels. Here is a copy.
LEON: I thought it my duty to warn you. I would hate to see you get in any trouble, monsieur.
MERCIER: Thank you. Gentlemen, this introduces a new element into our negotiations. Until this claim is completely settled.
KOPALSKI: We can call our ambassador.
IRANOFF: I give you my word! They were confiscated legally!
MERCIER: Please try to understand my position. I am not with-drawing. My offer stands and as soon as you produce a clear title, approved by the French courts, the deal is settled. Until then, good day.
LEON: ( intimately ) I hope you will forgive me, Monsieur ( in a low voice ) On the contrary. I consider myself very lucky. Good day.
MERCIER: ( in a low voice ) On the contrary. I consider myself very lucky. Good day.
LEON: ( bowing ) Good day, monsieur.
LEON: ( jauntily ) Well, gentlemen. how about a little Get out of here!
IRANOFF: Get out of here!
LEON: Don't look so gloomy, gentlemen. All is not lost. You may have a chance.
KOPALSKI: ( bursting forth ) We may have a chance.
LEON: Yes. a very slim one. I want to be fair. I don't deny that you might make out some kind of a case.
KOPALSKI: We haven't anything to discuss with you. We'll talk to a lawyer!
LEON: All right go ahead. you talk to the lawyer and I'll talk to the judge!
IRANOFF: That won't help you! You can't intimidate us!
KOPALSKI: Soviet Russia will put all its might behind this case.
BULJANOFF: You think because you represent the former Duchess.
LEON: The Duchess.
BULJANOFF: The former Duchess!
LEON: In any case, gentlemen, a charming, beautiful, exquisite woman. I warn you, if this case comes to trial it will be before a French court, and when the Duchess takes the stand.
IRANOFF: All right, go ahead, get her on the witness stand! What can she say?
LEON: But how will she look? The fashions this spring are very becoming to her. Gentlemen, the judge will be French, the jury will be French, everybody in that courtroom will be French. Have you ever seen a French court when a beautiful woman sits on the witness stand and lifts her skirt a little? You sit down and pull up your pants and where will it get I suppose you expect us to hand over the jewels?
IRANOFF: I suppose you expect us to hand over the jewels?
LEON: Oh, no, no. I am not a highwayman, I'm just a nuisance. All I'm trying to do is make things as difficult as Not that we are giving in one inch, but tell us. what is in your mind?
BULJANOFF: Not that we are giving in one inch, but tell us. what is in your mind?
LEON: Well, gentlemen, how about my What proposition?
IRANOFF: What proposition?
LEON: I just said let's have a little lunch. Room service.
LEON: Hey, Sascha! Serge! Misha! Yes, Leon.
KOPALSKI: Yes, Leon.
IRANOFF: ( pawing him ) What is it, my boy?
LEON: About this telegram to Moscow. Why should you bother? I'll write it for Leon. Leonitchka. Why are you so good to us?
BULJANOFF: Leon. Leonitchka. Why are you so good to us?
IRANOFF: ( kissing Leon too ) Leon, my little boy.
KOPALSKI: ( joining them ) Oh, Leon, you are so good.
LEON: ( freeing himself as best he can ) What's the name of that Commissar on the Board of Trade?
IRANOFF: ( writing ) Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow.
LEON: ( writing ) Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow.
KOPALSKI: You wouldn't like Razinin.
BULJANOFF: He's a bad man. Sends people to We don't like Razinin.
IRANOFF: We don't like Razinin.
BULJANOFF: ( again pawing Leon ) We like you, Leon don't we like
LEON: How does this strike you? Commissar Razinin, Board of Trade, Moscow. Unexpected situation here. Duchess Swana in Paris claims jewels, and has already brought injunction against sale or removal. After long and careful study we suggest in the interest of our beloved country a fifty-fifty settlement as best solution. Iranoff, Buljanoff, and If we say that, Leon. we'll be sent to Siberia!
KOPALSKI: If we say that, Leon. we'll be sent to Siberia!
IRANOFF: And if we have to go to Siberia.
LEON: ( still looking over the telegram ) I'll send you a muff.
BULJANOFF: Oh, why are you so good to us?
LEON: Take this telegram to the telegraph office at once!
RAKONIN: Yes, monsieur.
LADY LAVENHAM: Good afternoon, messieurs, mes Good afternoon, Lady Lavenham.
KOPALSKI: And how is Lord Lavenham?
BULJANOFF: .and little Lady Beatrice?
LADY LAVENHAM: Very well. Did fortune favor you at the races?
IRANOFF: Comme ci, comme ca.
LADY LAVENHAM: I understand. nothing to write home about.
BULJANOFF: ( alarmed ) Who wants to write home about it?
LADY LAVENHAM: It's just a saying. How about joining us Saturday night for dinner? We're having a few friends.
KOPALSKI: Are we free, Buljanoff?
BULJANOFF: We'll manage.
IRANOFF: We'll manage.
LADY LAVENHAM: Then let's say at nine.
BULJANOFF: Black tie or white tie?
LADY LAVENHAM: Oh, let's make it white.
BULJANOFF: LADY LAVENHAM
LADY LAVENHAM: Au revoir.
BULJANOFF: Nice people.
IRANOFF: ( into telephone ) Yes, Leon. ( a little bit annoyed ) What is it, Leon?. You can't hurry such things. You must give Moscow a little time. There's nothing we can do about it. why don't you drop in later?. Au revoir.
LIVING ROOM: As Iranoff enters Buljanoff rushes toward him.
BULJANOFF: Misha! Misha!
IRANOFF: What is it?
BULJANOFF: A telegram from Moscow! It must have been here all day!
KOPALSKI: ( joining them and reading telegram ) Halt negotiations immediately. Envoy extraordinary arrives Thursday six ten with full power. Your authority cancelled herewith. Razinin.
IRANOFF: It is Thursday!
BULJANOFF: It's six o'clock already!
KOPALSKI: I always said it would be Siberia!
IRANOFF: ( to Manager ) A Special Envoy is coming from Moscow. He'll occupy the Royal Suite. Move our things to the smallest room you've Yes, monsieur.
MANAGER: Yes, monsieur.
IRANOFF: Right away. instantly!
IRANOFF: I'm coming!
IRANOFF: This is a fine thing. Maybe we've missed him already.
KOPALSKI: How can you find somebody without knowing what he looks like?
IRANOFF: That must be the one!
BULJANOFF: Yes, he looks like a comrade!
KOPALSKI: No, that's not him.
BULJANOFF: Positively not!
NINOTCHKA: ( to Iranoff ) I am looking for Michael Simonovitch I am Michael Simonovitch Iranoff.
IRANOFF: I am Michael Simonovitch Iranoff.
NINOTCHKA: I am Nina Ivanovna Yakushova, Envoy Extraordinary, acting under direct orders of Comrade Commissar Razinin. Present me to your colleagues.
IRANOFF: Comrade Buljanoff.
NINOTCHKA: Comrade Kopalski.
IRANOFF: Comrade Kopalski.
NINOTCHKA: What a charming idea for Moscow to surprise us with a lady comrade.
IRANOFF: What a charming idea for Moscow to surprise us with a lady comrade.
KOPALSKI: If we had known we would have greeted you with flowers.
NINOTCHKA: ( sternly ) Don't make an issue of my womanhood. We are here for work. all of us. Let's not waste time. Shall we go?
IRANOFF: A Porter steps up to them.
PORTER: Here, please.
NINOTCHKA: What do you want?
PORTER: May I have your bags, madame?
NINOTCHKA: He is a porter. He wants to carry Why?. Why should you carry other people's bags?
KOPALSKI: He is a porter. He wants to carry Why?. Why should you carry other people's bags?
NINOTCHKA: ( to Porter ) Why?. Why should you carry other people's bags?
PORTER: Well. that's my business, madame.
NINOTCHKA: That's no business. that's a social That depends on the tip.
PORTER: That depends on the tip.
KOPALSKI: ( trying to take Ninotchka's bags ) Allow me, Comrade.
NINOTCHKA: No, thank you.
BULJANOFF: How are things in Moscow?
NINOTCHKA: Very good. The last mass trials were a great success. There are going to be fewer but better Russians.
NINOTCHKA: What's that?
KOPALSKI: It's a hat, Comrade, a woman's hat.
NINOTCHKA: Tsk, tsk, tsk, how can such a civilization survive which permits women to put things like that on their heads. It won't be long now,
ROYAL SUITE: Ninotchka enters, followed by the Three Russians, who by now are frightened to death.
BULJANOFF: This is the apartment we have reserved for you, Comrade Yakushova. I hope you like it.
NINOTCHKA: ( glancing around the tremendous room ) Which part of the room is mine?
IRANOFF: You see. it is a little different here. They don't rent rooms in pieces. We had to take the whole suite.
NINOTCHKA: How much does this cost?
IRANOFF: Two thousand francs.
NINOTCHKA: A week?
IRANOFF: A day.
NINOTCHKA: Do you know how much a cow costs, Comrade Iranoff?
IRANOFF: A cow?
NINOTCHKA: Two thousand francs. If I stay here a week I will cost the Russian people seven cows. Who am I to cost the Russian people seven cows?
BULJANOFF: We had to take it on account of the For ourselves. we are much happier now since we moved to a little room next to the servants' quarters.
IRANOFF: For ourselves. we are much happier now since we moved to a little room next to the servants' quarters.
NINOTCHKA: I am ashamed to put the picture of Lenin in a room like this. Comrades, your telegram was received with great disfavor in Moscow.
KOPALSKI: We did our best, Comrade.
NINOTCHKA: I hope so for your sake. Let us examine the case. What does the lawyer say?
BULJANOFF: Which lawyer?
NINOTCHKA: You didn't get legal advice?
BULJANOFF: We didn't want to get mixed up with lawyers. They are very expensive here. If you just say hello to a lawyer. well, there goes another We dealt directly with the representative of the Grand Duchess. I am sure if we call him he will give you a very clear picture.
KOPALSKI: We dealt directly with the representative of the Grand Duchess. I am sure if we call him he will give you a very clear picture.
NINOTCHKA: I will not repeat your mistake. I will have no dealings with the Grand Duchess nor her representative.
NINOTCHKA: ( looking up ) Comrade Buljanoff.
BULJANOFF: Yes, Comrade?
NINOTCHKA: Do you spell Buljanoff with one or two f's?
BULJANOFF: ( with fright in his voice ) With two f's, if you please.
NINOTCHKA: ( into phone ) Will you send me some cigarettes, ( suddenly getting up ) Comrades, I am not in a position to pass final judgment but at best you have been careless in your duty to the State. ( with utmost gravity ) You were entrusted with more than a mere sale of jewelry. Why are we peddling our precious possessions to the world at this time? Our next year's crop is in danger and you know it. Unless we can get foreign currency to buy tractors there will not be enough bread for our people. And you three comrades.
KOPALSKI: We did it with the best intentions.
NINOTCHKA: We cannot feed the Russian people on your intentions. Fifty per cent to a so-called Duchess!. Half of every loaf of bread to our enemy! Comrade Kopalski, go at once to our Embassy and get the address of the best lawyer in Paris.
KOPALSKI: Yes, Comrade.
NINOTCHKA: You, Comrade Iranoff, go to the Public Library and get me the section of the Civil Code on property.
BULJANOFF: Is there anything I can do, Comrade?
NINOTCHKA: You might get me an accurate map of Paris. I want to use my spare time to inspect the public utilities and make a study of all outstanding technical achievements in the city.
BULJANOFF: Yes, Comrade.
NINOTCHKA: Come in.
CIGARETTE GIRLS: ( gaily ) Hello! Hello! Cigarettes?
NINOTCHKA: ( looking at the Russians ) Comrades, you seem to have been smoking a lot.
DESK CLERK: Desk. yes, Monsieur Kopalski. .you are expecting Count d'Algout. uh huh. but he is not to go to the Royal Suite under any circumstances. He should go to your new room, 985? Thank you, monsieur.
DESK CLERK: Good evening, madame.
NINOTCHKA: Good evening. She exits out the door.
NINOTCHKA: You, please.
LEON: Yes. Could you give me some How long do we have to wait here?
NINOTCHKA: Yes. Could you give me some How long do we have to wait here?
LEON: How long do we have to wait here?
NINOTCHKA: How long do we have to wait here?
LEON: Well until the policeman whistles At what intervals does he whistle?
NINOTCHKA: At what intervals does he whistle?
LEON: How many minutes between the first and second whistle?
NINOTCHKA: How many minutes between the first and second whistle?
LEON: That's funny. It's interesting. I never gave it a thought before.
NINOTCHKA: Have you never been caught in a similar situation?
LEON: Have I? Do you know when I come to think about it it's staggering. If I add it all up I must have spent years waiting for signals. Imagine! An important part of my life wasted between whistles.
NINOTCHKA: In other words you don't know.
LEON: Thank you.
NINOTCHKA: Thank you.
LEON: You're welcome.
LEON: Can I help you?
NINOTCHKA: You might hold this for me.
LEON: Love to.
NINOTCHKA: ( engrossed in her geography ) Correct me if I am wrong. We are facing north, aren't we?
LEON: ( bewildered ) Facing north. I'd hate to commit myself without my compass. Pardon me. are you an explorer?
NINOTCHKA: No. I am looking for the Eiffel Is that thing lost again?. Listen. if you are interested in a view.
LEON: Is that thing lost again?. Listen. if you are interested in a view.
NINOTCHKA: I am interested in the Eiffel Tower from a technical standpoint.
LEON: Technical. I couldn't help you from that angle. You see, a real Parisian only goes to the top of the tower in moments of despair to jump How long does it take a man to land?
NINOTCHKA: How long does it take a man to land?
LEON: Now, isn't that too bad! The last time I jumped I forgot to clock it! Let me see. Eiffel Tower. Your finger, please.
NINOTCHKA: ( skeptically ) Why do you need my finger?
LEON: Bad manners to point with your own. Here. the Eiffel Tower.
NINOTCHKA: And where are we?
LEON: ( shifting her finger back to the hotel ) Here. here we are. here you are and here I am. feel it?
NINOTCHKA: I am interested only in the shortest distance between these two points. Must you flirt?
LEON: I don't have to but I find it natural.
NINOTCHKA: Suppress it.
LEON: I'll try.
NINOTCHKA: For my own information would you call your approach toward me typical of the local morale?
LEON: Madame, it is that kind of approach which has made Paris what it is.
NINOTCHKA: You are very sure of yourself, aren't Nothing has occurred recently to shake my confidence.
LEON: Nothing has occurred recently to shake my confidence.
NINOTCHKA: I have heard of the arrogant male in capitalistic society. It is having a superior earning power that makes you like that.
LEON: A Russian! I love Russians! Comrade. I have been fascinated by your Five- Year Plan for the past fifteen years!
NINOTCHKA: Your type will soon be extinct. Please. can you tell me the exact width of the foundation on which the piers are resting?. and the depth?
NINOTCHKA: Please. can you tell me the exact width of the foundation on which the piers are resting?. and the depth?
ATTENDANT: You don't have to worry. The thing is safe.
NINOTCHKA: I am not afraid. I want to know.
LEON: ( reading ) The foundation is one hundred and forty-one yards square. ( he tips his hat and interjects ) I hope you'll forgive me but I thought ( interrupting ) Go ahead.
NINOTCHKA: ( interrupting ) Go ahead.
LEON: ( continuing ) Four massive piers of masonry are sunk to a depth of forty-six feet on the side of the Seine, and twenty- nine and one-half feet on the other side. The girders of interlaced iron- work which stay the structure have an inclination of fifty-four That's a strange angle.
NINOTCHKA: That's a strange angle.
LEON: Yes, very strange.
LEON: ( continuing to read ) Ascending to the tower is a staircase consisting of eight hundred and twenty- nine steps. ( this disclosure frightens Leon as he realizes the climb ahead of him. He reads on as they walk up ) .and an additional two hundred and fifty-four steps to the very top. ( now Leon stops but Ninotchka proceeds on out of the picture. Leon calls after her and reads from his book in a loud voice ) There is an elevator included in the price of admission!
NINOTCHKA: You gave me some very valuable information. Thank you.
LEON: ( looking at the dazzling view ) And thank you for getting me up here. I've never seen this before. Beautiful, isn't it?
NINOTCHKA: Yes, it is.
LEON: I'm glad I saw it before becoming Do not misunderstand me. I do not hold your frivolity against you. As basic material you might not be bad, but you are the unfortunate product of a doomed culture. I feel sorry for you.
NINOTCHKA: Do not misunderstand me. I do not hold your frivolity against you. As basic material you might not be bad, but you are the unfortunate product of a doomed culture. I feel sorry for you.
LEON: You must admit that this doomed old civilization sparkles. It glitters!
NINOTCHKA: I do not deny its beauty, but it is a waste of electricity.
LEON: What a city! There are the Grands Boulevards. blasted out of the heart of the old streets. The Arc de Triomphe. made to greet Napoleon's army. The Opera! And Montmartre. Montparnasse. La Bohème. and now I'll show you the greatest attraction! It will cost me a franc but it is worth it. The most wonderful spot in all Paris unique! Here, look.. What do you see?
NINOTCHKA: I see a house that looks like any other house. What's remarkable about It's not the structure but the spirit which dwells within. There are three rooms and a kitchenette dedicated to So that is your house?
LEON: It's not the structure but the spirit which dwells within. There are three rooms and a kitchenette dedicated to So that is your house?
NINOTCHKA: So that is your house?
LEON: Well, let's say I live in it. Such a pleasant place. all kinds of comfort, easy to reach, close to street car, bus, and subway.
NINOTCHKA: ( straight from the shoulder ) Does that mean that you want me to go there?
LEON: ( feeling that he has offended her ) Please don't misunderstand me.
NINOTCHKA: Then you don't want me to go there.
LEON: ( in a pickle ) Now I didn't say that either. naturally nothing would please me ( simply ) Then why don't we go? ( looking at him ) You might be an interesting subject of study.
NINOTCHKA: ( simply ) Then why don't we go? ( looking at him ) You might be an interesting subject of study.
LEON: I will do my best.
GASTON: ( into phone ) No. Count d'Algout is still out. Yes, as soon as he returns I'll tell him. Yes. I'll tell him Monsieur
LEON: Good evening, Gaston.
GASTON: Good evening, Monsieur.
NINOTCHKA: Is this what you call the "butler"?
LEON: ( takes Gaston's hand ) Good evening, comrade. ( to Leon ) This man is horribly old. You should not make him work.
NINOTCHKA: ( takes Gaston's hand ) Good evening, comrade. ( to Leon ) This man is horribly old. You should not make him work.
LEON: He takes good care of that.
NINOTCHKA: He looks sad. Do you whip him?
LEON: No, though the mere thought makes my mouth water.
NINOTCHKA: ( to the completely flabbergasted Gaston ) The day will come when you will be free. Go to bed, little father. We want to be alone.
GASTON: ( in a low voice ) Count d'Algout, there have been several telephone.
LEON: Go to bed.
LEON: Well, may I offer you a drink, or how about something to eat?
NINOTCHKA: Thank you. I've had all the calories necessary for today. What do we do now?
NINOTCHKA: What do we do now?
LEON: We take off our hat and coat. We sit down we make ourselves comfortable. We adjust ourselves to the prospect of a most enjoyable evening. We look at each other. We Well. we don't smile. How about some music?
NINOTCHKA: Is that customary?
LEON: It helps. It has ever since King David wooed Bathsheba with the harp. As I am not so fortunate as to have my harp at hand, I shall turn on the I should say this room is eighteen by twenty-five.
NINOTCHKA: ( the observer ) I should say this room is eighteen by twenty-five.
LEON: Not too big and not too small. What I'd call the typical room of an average man. Or shall we say a little above average. Now if there are any special aspects you wish to study I have nothing to conceal. Just look around. That's my desk. Those are my books, and here am I. Where shall we I will start with you.
NINOTCHKA: I will start with you.
LEON: That's great. I'm thirty-five years old. Just over six feet tall. I weigh a hundred and eighty-two pounds And what is your profession?
NINOTCHKA: And what is your profession?
LEON: Keeping my body fit, keeping my mind alert, keeping my landlord appeased. That's a full-time job.
NINOTCHKA: And what do you do for mankind?
LEON: For mankind not a thing for womankind the record is not quite so You are something we do not have in Thank you. Thank you.
NINOTCHKA: You are something we do not have in Thank you. Thank you.
LEON: Thank you. Thank you.
NINOTCHKA: That is why I believe in the future of my country.
LEON: I begin to believe in it myself since I've met you. I still don't know what to make of it. It confuses me, it frightens me a little, but it fascinates me, Ninotchka.
NINOTCHKA: You pronounce it incorrectly. Ni- That is correct.
LEON: That is correct.
NINOTCHKA: That is correct.
LEON: Ninotchka, do you like me just a little bit?
NINOTCHKA: Your general appearance is not Thank you.
LEON: Thank you.
NINOTCHKA: Look at me. The whites of your eyes are clear. Your cornea is excellent.
LEON: Your cornea is terrific. Tell me you're so expert on things can it be that I'm falling in love with You are bringing in wrong values. Love is a romantic designation for a most ordinary biological, or shall we say chemical, process. A lot of nonsense is talked and written about Oh, I see. What do you use instead?
NINOTCHKA: You are bringing in wrong values. Love is a romantic designation for a most ordinary biological, or shall we say chemical, process. A lot of nonsense is talked and written about Oh, I see. What do you use instead?
LEON: Oh, I see. What do you use instead?
NINOTCHKA: I acknowledge the existence of a natural impulse common to all.
LEON: What can I possibly do to encourage such an impulse in you?
NINOTCHKA: You don't have to do a thing. Chemically we are already quite You're the most improbable creature I've ever met in my life, Ninotchka, You repeat yourself.
LEON: ( bewildered, and yet completely intrigued ) You're the most improbable creature I've ever met in my life, Ninotchka, You repeat yourself.
NINOTCHKA: You repeat yourself.
LEON: I'd like to say it a thousand times.
NINOTCHKA: Don't do it, please.
LEON: I'm at a loss, Ninotchka. You must forgive me if I appear a little old- fashioned. After all, I'm just a poor bourgeois.
NINOTCHKA: It's never too late to change. I used to belong to the petty bourgeoisie myself. My father and mother wanted me to stay and work on the farm, but I preferred the bayonet.
LEON: ( bewildered ) The bayonet? Did you really?
NINOTCHKA: I was wounded before Warsaw.
LEON: Wounded? How?
NINOTCHKA: I was a sergeant in the Third Cavalry Brigade. Would you like to see my I'd love to. Tsk, tsk, tsk.
LEON: ( dumfounded ) I'd love to. ( she pulls the blouse off her shoulder and shows him her scar ) Tsk, tsk, tsk.
NINOTCHKA: A Polish lancer. I was sixteen.
LEON: Poor Ninotchka. Poor, poor Ninotchka.
NINOTCHKA: ( readjusting her blouse ) Don't pity me. Pity the Polish lancer. After all, I'm alive.
LEON: What kind of a girl are you, anyway?
NINOTCHKA: Just what you see. A tiny cog in the great wheel of evolution.
LEON: You're the most adorable cog I ever saw in my life. Ninotchka, Cogitska, let me confess something. Never did I dream I could feel like this toward a sergeant.
LEON: Do you hear that?
NINOTCHKA: It's twelve o'clock.
LEON: It's midnight. One half of Paris is making love to the other half. Look at the clock. One hand has met the other hand. They kiss. Isn't that That's the way a clock works. There's nothing wonderful about it. You merely feel you must put yourself in a romantic mood to add to your I can't possibly think of a better It's false sentimentality.
NINOTCHKA: That's the way a clock works. There's nothing wonderful about it. You merely feel you must put yourself in a romantic mood to add to your I can't possibly think of a better It's false sentimentality.
LEON: I can't possibly think of a better It's false sentimentality.
NINOTCHKA: It's false sentimentality.
LEON: ( trying desperately to make her mood more romantic ) You analyze everything out of existence. You analyze me out of existence. I won't let you. Love is not so simple. Ninotchka, Ninotchka, why do doves bill and coo? Why do snails, coldest of all creatures, circle interminably around each other? Why do moths fly hundreds of miles to find their mates? Why do flowers open their petals? Oh, Ninotchka, Ninotchka, surely you feel some slight symptom of the divine passion. a general warmth in the palms of your hands. a strange heaviness in your limbs. a burning of the lips that is not thirst but a thousand times more tantalizing, more exalting, than thirst?
NINOTCHKA: You are very talkative.
LEON: Was that talkative?
NINOTCHKA: No, that was restful. Again.
NINOTCHKA: Thank you.
LEON: Oh, my barbaric Ninotchka. My impossible, unromantic, statistical.
LEON: ( continuing ) Glorious, analytical.
NINOTCHKA: The telephone is ringing.
LEON: Oh, let it ring.
NINOTCHKA: But one of your friends may be in need of you. You must answer.
LEON: ( into phone ) Hello?. Yes. I'm sorry but I couldn't make it. I ran into a friend from the army. What?. The deal is off! Are you crazy, Buljanoff?.
LEON: .A special envoy arrived. What?. That sounds better. I'll be glad to see her any time she wants. Oh, she doesn't want to see me? What do you know about that? Why?. Well, I'll get in touch with her myself. What's her name?. .What?. Yaku. How do you spell it?. Heavens! those Russian names! .I. Oh, Y.
LEON: ( continuing ) Yakushova. Ninotch.
LEON: ( into phone ) All right. Thank you. ( camera panning with him as he walks over to her )
LEON: ( camera panning with him as he walks over to her )
NINOTCHKA: I must go.
LEON: Ninotchka, or shall I say Special Envoy Yakushova.
NINOTCHKA: Let's forget that we ever met.
LEON: I have a better suggestion. Let's forget that the telephone ever rang. I never heard that you are Yakushova. you are Ninotchka. my I was sent here by my country to fight you.
NINOTCHKA: ( firmly ) I was sent here by my country to fight you.
LEON: All right, fight me, fight me as much as you want, but fight me tomorrow morning! There's nothing sweeter than sharing a secret with a bitter enemy.
NINOTCHKA: ( uncompromisingly ) As a representative of Moscow.
LEON: Tonight let's not represent anybody but ourselves.
NINOTCHKA: It is out of the question. If you wish to approach me.
LEON: You know I want to.
NINOTCHKA: Then do it through my lawyer!
LEON: ( desperate ) Ninotchka, you can't walk out like this. I'm crazy about you, and I thought I'd made an impression on you. You liked the white of my eye. I must go.
NINOTCHKA: I must go.
LEON: But, Ninotchka, I held you in my arms. You kissed me!
NINOTCHKA: I kissed the Polish lancer too. before he died.
GASTON: Good morning, Your Highness.
SWANA: Good morning, Gaston.
GASTON: Count d'Algout is still asleep.
SWANA: ( as she walks toward Leon's room ) That's all right.
LEON'S BEDROOM: The curtains are drawn. The night light is still on. Leon, a dressing gown over his pajamas, is sound asleep in a big arm chair. As Swana enters, she sees him with some alarm.
SWANA: Leon! What in heaven's name.!
LEON: Is anything wrong? Are you ill?
SWANA: Is anything wrong? Are you ill?
LEON: Don't tell me the bed has lost its best friend.
SWANA: Don't tell me the bed has lost its best friend.
LEON: I just couldn't sleep. I got up and went back. and then got up again. These last few days. whew!
SWANA: Darling, you're taking my business affairs far too seriously. Much as I'd love to rob the Bolsheviks of their filthy money, I won't do it at the expense of your health. Particularly as we know we won't get You look so pale. pale but
SWANA: Come in.
GASTON: Your breakfast, monsieur.
LEON: I don't feel like any breakfast.
SWANA: Nonsense. How can you fight the Reds and make yourself agreeable to the Whites if you don't keep up your Shall I draw your bath, sir?
GASTON: Shall I draw your bath, sir?
LEON: Make it ice cold.
SWANA: Not in your condition. Make it tepid, Gaston. tepid and tender. And lay out his gray suit. Afterwards I'll drive you through the Bois. Slowly. in Waltz time.
GASTON: A blue shirt, perhaps?
SWANA: Blue? Let's offset his mood. Find a striped one, and brighten it with a great blaze of tie.
GASTON: Very well, Your Highness.
SWANA: Now. here we have two very handsome soft-boiled eggs. Do you suppose hens mind what happens to their eggs? Probably not. They have such unfeeling eyes. We'll put in a great nugget of butter, plenty of pepper and salt. Darling, I haven't seen you for three livelong days. seventy-two hours!
LEON: ( irritably ) Oh, please, Swana! I don't know whether I'm standing on my head or my heels. Here you are blaming me for neglecting you when I'm trying to concentrate on another woman and can't get near her.
SWANA: You haven't seen her yet?
LEON: No, and believe me I've tried everything! I must have telephoned her a hundred times. I've sent her telegrams, I've sent her flowers. I asked her to dinner. I offered her seats for the Opera.
SWANA: That proletarian! In the old days we'd have had her flogged.
LEON: That wouldn't have done any good. Not with her. She's the most incredible creature I've ever seen.
SWANA: You just told me you hadn't seen Well. er. I caught a glimpse of her when she walked through the lobby.
LEON: Well. er. I caught a glimpse of her when she walked through the lobby.
SWANA: Imagine the carpets of a self- respecting Parisian hotel dirtied by the boots of a muzhik! What does she look like?
LEON: You can't imagine.
SWANA: That bad? Old or young?
LEON: Timeless. When she comes into a room you'd think that the Bolsheviks had taken over Paris. She wears her cheap miserable blouse as though it were the latest model by Schiaparelli. What a woman! What a woman! There is a Russian snowstorm in each of her You saw all that in one glimpse?
SWANA: You saw all that in one glimpse?
LEON: ( getting up ) Darling, if we're going to get anywhere someone has to keep his eyes open! ( he walks over to the bathroom )
SWANA: Now, darling, soak in your beautiful pine bath and let Gaston shave you.
SWANA: There is no answer. After a slight pause she herself goes to answer the bell.
SWANA: We want to talk to Count d'Algout. My name is Kopalski.
KOPALSKI: We want to talk to Count d'Algout. My name is Kopalski.
SWANA: Oh. you are the three gentlemen from Moscow?
KOPALSKI: ( icily ) You may wait.
SWANA: ( icily ) You may wait.
BULJANOFF: That's her.
KOPALSKI: Imagine! The niece of the Czar opening the door for us.
BULJANOFF: Once in Petersburg I was driving down the Nevsky Prospect in my cart and Her Highness in her troika swept down from the opposite direction, and when I couldn't make way quick enough she spat in my face.
IRANOFF: Now look here, Buljanoff. You never were in Petersburg, you never owned a cart, and she never spat in your face. Who are you trying to impress?
LEON: Hello, boys.
LEON: Come in, come in.
LEON: What's new?
KOPALSKI: ( excitedly ) Leon, Leonitchka, she is not going to negotiate! She is going to fight that injunction. She's going to make a precedent of it!
IRANOFF: She says she won't be intimidated by parasites. She called the Duchess a blood-sucking aristocrat and a What did she say about me?
LEON: ( eagerly ) What did she say about me?
IRANOFF: ( after a moment's consideration ) I think she covered you with the
BULJANOFF: And Leonitchka! What she said about And they might believe her in Moscow.
IRANOFF: And they might believe her in Moscow.
BULJANOFF: What do you mean they might they We don't blame you, Leon, but when we came from Russia we believed in We avoided luxury and extravagance and today. well, if you were to offer us a glass of champagne, we wouldn't say no. Well, boys, I'd like to help you but what can I do? Yesterday I waited six hours in the lobby!
KOPALSKI: We don't blame you, Leon, but when we came from Russia we believed in We avoided luxury and extravagance and today. well, if you were to offer us a glass of champagne, we wouldn't say no. Well, boys, I'd like to help you but what can I do? Yesterday I waited six hours in the lobby!
IRANOFF: We avoided luxury and extravagance and today. well, if you were to offer us a glass of champagne, we wouldn't say no. Well, boys, I'd like to help you but what can I do? Yesterday I waited six hours in the lobby!
LEON: Well, boys, I'd like to help you but what can I do? Yesterday I waited six hours in the lobby!
KOPALSKI: She doesn't leave her room! She has been locked in for the last two days with lawyers and law books!
LEON: All right, then make an appointment with her so I can see her!
KOPALSKI: We can't. but you are so ingenious, You found your way to us and we weren't easy to reach, were we?
IRANOFF: You found your way to us and we weren't easy to reach, were we?
LEON: No, no.
BULJANOFF: Didn't we put up a strong resistance?
LEON: Oh, yes, yes.
KOPALSKI: You must help us, Leon. if you don't win her over we're on our way to Siberia!
BULJANOFF: Or it might be the firing squad!
KOPALSKI: Or we can't go back to Russia!
IRANOFF: What's wrong with that?
BULJANOFF: Yes! We could stay with Leon!
IRANOFF: Leon, how would you like to have three lifelong friends?
LEON: Boys, boys. don't forget Russia is your mother country. Three sons walking out all at once. that's too much for any mother.
BULJANOFF: Well, if your mother turns against you, you have to look for someone to adopt you.
SWANA: Leon! Just a minute.
SWANA: I'm leaving, dear. I'm lunching at Fouquet's if you can make it, and. Leon, remember, a man should think it over twice before he decides to become a mother.
DESK: It is piled deep with law books and papers. Ninotchka sits at it, conferring with two Lawyers.
FIRST LAWYER: ( uncertainly ) I seem to remember some additional injunctive provision dealing with the property of foreigners residing in France.
NINOTCHKA: ( with the precision of a machine ) You are referring to paragraph 59b, section 25f of the Civil Code.
NINOTCHKA: Page eight hundred twenty-four.
NINOTCHKA: And do not fail to read the three footnotes. While you are studying it I will eat. Food please.
RAKONIN: ( into phone ) Room service. Just a moment please.
LEON: ( with an assumed French accent into phone ) Room service speaking.
NINOTCHKA: ( into phone ) Send me a plate of raw carrots and beets, beets predominating on a ratio of sixty-forty. What? There is a strike in the kitchen? Good! Will you assure the strikers of my hearty sympathy in their cause. I hope they will not weaken in their demands and tell them to put no dressing whatsoever on my vegetables. What? You won't serve me either? Now look here, Comrade, I think it is a fine idea to let the capitalists go without luncheon but when you keep food away from me you're weakening the people.
LEON: ( into phone ) So! You want to make a strike breaker out of me! I am surprised at you, Comrade! Is it too much for the workers of the world to ask you to walk around the corner for lunch? All I can say to you is take your hammer and sickle and get out of that Royal Suite!
NINOTCHKA: Tsk, tsk, tsk.
TAXI DRIVER: Where to, madame?
NINOTCHKA: Can you recommend a restaurant?
TAXI DRIVER: Well, there's Pruniers if you care for seafood. If you want to lunch in the Bois, there's.
NINOTCHKA: ( interrupting ) Where do you eat?
TAXI DRIVER: At Père Mathieu's.
NINOTCHKA: Where is that?
TAXI DRIVER: It's just a place for workmen.
NINOTCHKA: Where is it?
TAXI DRIVER: Eight blocks down in the Rue de
NINOTCHKA: Thank you.
PÈRE MATHIEU: This way, madame. Are you alone? By the window perhaps? Or a nice little corner table?
NINOTCHKA: This will do.
PÈRE MATHIEU: I think this is the first time you have been to my little place. Your face is new to me. Now, what shall it be?
NINOTCHKA: Raw carrots and beets.
PÈRE MATHIEU: ( horrified ) Oh, madame! This is a restaurant, not a meadow.
PÈRE MATHIEU: Here is what we are offering today. Please make your choice. I am sure you will find something to tempt your appetite.
LEON: Why, hello! It certainly is a small Well, madame? Shall we start with soup? Fish soup today. I got up at five to fish them from the Seine.
PÈRE MATHIEU: ( to Ninotchka ) Well, madame? Shall we start with soup? Fish soup today. I got up at five to fish them from the Seine.
LEON: ( calling over to Père Mathieu ) Crayfish soup for me!
PÈRE MATHIEU: ( to Leon ) Very well, monsieur. ( back to Ninotchka ) Then, may I suggest an omelet with Bring me something simple. I never think about food.
NINOTCHKA: Bring me something simple. I never think about food.
PÈRE MATHIEU: ( horrified ) But, madame! If you don't think about food what do you think about?
NINOTCHKA: The future of the common people.
PÈRE MATHIEU: ( sagely ) That also is a question of food, madame. I'll bring you a nice little lunch à la Père Mathieu. ( he exits )
LEON: Pardon me for addressing you but you insulted him, you know that. You hurt his feelings. It was just like telling a musician you don't like music. That good old man believes in food as you believe in Karl Marx. You can't go around hurting people, Comrade Yakushova, but maybe you can make it up to him. Do you know how? By eating everything with relish, by drinking everything with gusto, by having a good time for the first time in your natural life!
NINOTCHKA: I don't like your following me.
LEON: I didn't follow you.
NINOTCHKA: Then how did you get here?
LEON: I always eat here.
NINOTCHKA: This is a place for workmen.
LEON: ( laying it on thick ) But my dear child, I am most at home among working men. I hate the places where you circulate the Hotel Clarence. This is my natural element. After all, what are any of us? Workingmen! At least, those of us who are worth our salt. Hyah?
TRUCKMAN: He is in the middle of an enormous gulp of food. He registers surprise, winks at his companion, and then, deciding to humor a drunk, waves back energetically at Leon in greeting.
LEON: Another truckman responds with equal exuberance.
LEON: Hyah, fellows!
LEON: ( boastfully ) They are all my friends. They're a swell bunch!
LEON: ( trying his bluff on Père Mathieu ) Ah, my friend! I'm happy to see you I'm always glad to meet a new customer, and I hope this first visit will not be your last.
PÈRE MATHIEU: I'm always glad to meet a new customer, and I hope this first visit will not be your last.
LEON: Just an old man. His memory is getting What are you after?
NINOTCHKA: What are you after?
LEON: Must one always be after something?
NINOTCHKA: Your tactics are useless. My name is neither Buljanoff, Iranoff, nor Oh, Ninotchka, who wants to talk business. If you win the suit, fine. If we win the suit, better. You do me an injustice. When we went to my apartment did I have the slightest idea that you had any connection with this deal?
LEON: Oh, Ninotchka, who wants to talk business. If you win the suit, fine. If we win the suit, better. You do me an injustice. When we went to my apartment did I have the slightest idea that you had any connection with this deal?
NINOTCHKA: But you have now, and I know now that you are a man who employs business methods which in Russia would be punished by death.
LEON: Death! Death! Always so glum! What about life, Ninotchka! Do Russians never think of life? Of the moment in which we are living? The only moment we really have? Don't take it all so seriously, Ninotchka. Nothing is worth it. Please. relax. I beg you, Sergeant. smile!
NINOTCHKA: ( astonished ) Will you smile?
LEON: Will you smile?
NINOTCHKA: Just smile.
LEON: Just smile.
NINOTCHKA: At what?
LEON: At anything. At the whole ludicrous spectacle of life. At people being pompous and taking themselves seriously and exaggerating their own importance. If you can't find anything else to laugh at you can laugh at you and me.
NINOTCHKA: Because we are an odd couple.
LEON: Because we are an odd couple.
NINOTCHKA: Then you should go back to your table.
LEON: No, I can't leave you. I won't. Not yet. Not until I've made you laugh. at least once.
NINOTCHKA: Ha! Ha! Now go back.
LEON: That's not a laugh! I mean a laugh from the heart. Now let's see. I'm going to tell you a funny story. Just a moment. I've got it! Well, it seems there were a couple of Frenchmen who went to America.
NINOTCHKA: On which boat?
LEON: ( thrown off by her methodical thinking ) Well, er. let's drop it. I don't think you would care for that one.
NINOTCHKA: Probably not.
LEON: Do you like Scotch stories?
NINOTCHKA: I have never heard one.
LEON: Two Scotchmen met on the street. and I don't know the name of the street and it really doesn't matter. Well, anyway, one's name was McIntosh and the other's was McGillicuddy. McIntosh says to McGillicuddy, "Hello, Mr. McGillicuddy," and McGillicuddy says to McIntosh, "Hello, Mr. McIntosh," and then McIntosh says to McGillicuddy, "How is Mrs. McGillicuddy?" and then McGillicuddy says to McIntosh, "How is Mrs. I wish they had never met.
NINOTCHKA: I wish they had never met.
LEON: ( disarmed ) So do I. ( after a little pause ) Now, here's a great one. Ha! Ha! ( he looks at Ninotchka and her expression stops him ) Well, maybe it's not so good. Let's forget it! How's this? Two men are looking at the moon. One says to the other, "Is it true that a lot of people live on the moon?" "Yes, it is," says the other, "five hundred million." "Whew!" replies the first, "they must get pretty crowded when it's half moon!" Ha! Ha! Ha!
LEON: ( starting to get sore ) I suppose you don't think that's It seemed funny to me when I first heard it. Maybe the trouble isn't with the joke. Maybe it's with you!
NINOTCHKA: It seemed funny to me when I first heard it. Maybe the trouble isn't with the joke. Maybe it's with you!
LEON: It seemed funny to me when I first heard it. Maybe the trouble isn't with the joke. Maybe it's with you!
NINOTCHKA: I don't think so.
LEON: Maybe you haven't any sense of humor. Well, I'll give you one more chance! Now listen!
LEON: When I heard this joke for the first time I laughed myself sick. Here goes! A man comes into a restaurant and sits down and says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream." After five minutes the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we're all out of cream, can it be without
LEON: ( furious ) Not funny, huh?
NINOTCHKA: So you don't think that's funny? It is funny! Everyone else thinks so! Maybe you didn't get it.
LEON: So you don't think that's funny? It is funny! Everyone else thinks so! Maybe you didn't get it.
LEON: ( threateningly ) I'll tell you that joke again. A man comes into a restaurant. Did you get He sits down at the table and says to the waiter. Did you get that Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee.". ( he realizes he has made a mistake ) Wait a minute. wait a minute. I'm all mixed up. ( he starts over again ) A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
NINOTCHKA: He sits down at the table and says to the waiter. Did you get that Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee.". Wait a minute. wait a minute. I'm all mixed up. A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
LEON: He sits down at the table and says to the waiter. Did you get that Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee.". Wait a minute. wait a minute. I'm all mixed up. A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
NINOTCHKA: Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee.". Wait a minute. wait a minute. I'm all mixed up. A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
LEON: Well, so far it isn't funny, but wait. He says to the waiter, "Waiter! Bring me a cup of coffee." So the waiter comes back five minutes later and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no coffee.". Wait a minute. wait a minute. I'm all mixed up. A man comes in a restaurant, he sits down, he calls the waiter and he says, "Waiter! Get me a cup of coffee without cream," and five minutes later the waiter comes back and says, "I'm sorry, sir, we have no cream, can it be a glass of milk!"
LEON: Ah! You have no sense of humor! That settles it! You have no sense of humor! None! No humor!!
LEON: ( indignantly ) What's funny about this?
LAWYER: ( reading ) In addition to the arguments above enumerated for lifting this injunction, we wish to cite the decision of the High Court of Paris, rendered in the case of Princess Marishka against the Government of Montenegro on the fifth day of August, 1897. Comparing the facts in that case with our present set of facts we feel that the Treaty between the Republic of France and the U.S.S.R. should prevail over all.
NINOTCHKA: I'm sorry, gentlemen. The other day I heard such a funny story. It still makes me laugh. It is very I am sorry. Oh yes. about this The hearing is set for the twentieth of this month.
LAWYER: ( very businesslike ) The hearing is set for the twentieth of this month.
NINOTCHKA: ( not thinking of the injunction ) That's two weeks from Thursday.
LAWYER: We did our utmost to have it set I know, gentlemen, but it is in the hands of the Court. We're helpless, aren't we?
NINOTCHKA: ( her attitude completely different from her former business conferences ) I know, gentlemen, but it is in the hands of the Court. We're helpless, aren't we?
LAWYER: Yes. It is unfortunate.
NINOTCHKA: Well, there's nothing we can do about it. Why get excited?
LAWYER: We'll leave these papers here for your further consideration. Au revoir, Au revoir.
NINOTCHKA: Au revoir.
NINOTCHKA: Well, it means another two weeks in Too bad we have to waste all that I acted on your suggestion and got in touch with the Power and Light authorities. Whenever you want to visit their plants they are open to Oh yes, Power and Light. Thank you.
IRANOFF: ( with exaggerated efficiency ) Too bad we have to waste all that I acted on your suggestion and got in touch with the Power and Light authorities. Whenever you want to visit their plants they are open to ( a little bit dreamily ) Oh yes, Power and Light. Thank you.
KOPALSKI: I acted on your suggestion and got in touch with the Power and Light authorities. Whenever you want to visit their plants they are open to Oh yes, Power and Light. Thank you.
NINOTCHKA: ( a little bit dreamily ) Oh yes, Power and Light. Thank you.
BULJANOFF: There's something else which I know will appeal to you. A visit to the Paris sewers. They tell me it is extremely instructive.
NINOTCHKA: Huh?. Why don't you get a haircut, Buljanoff? You all look so wintry, Comrades. And why do we always keep the windows closed? Isn't it amazing, at home there's still snow and ice and here. Look at the birds. I always felt a little hurt that our swallows deserted us in the winter for capitalistic countries. Now I know why. We have the high ideal but they have the climate. well, Comrades, I don't think I need you any more.
KOPALSKI: If there is anything we can do for No, not a thing. Would you like to go out?
NINOTCHKA: No, not a thing. Would you like to go out?
NINOTCHKA: Have you any money?
NINOTCHKA: Well, here are fifty francs.
NINOTCHKA: Bring me forty-five back.
LEON: ( consulting his watch ) What time have you, Gaston?
GASTON: Eight forty-two, sir.
LEON: I guess it is eight forty-two.
GASTON: You seem to be a bit nervous, sir.
LEON: I am, Gaston.
GASTON: If you will forgive me, ever since you met that Bolshevik lady I've noticed a distinct change in you, Have you?
LEON: ( complacently ) Have you?
GASTON: Decidedly. Yesterday I was greatly amazed when I came from the market and found that you had made your bed, sir.
LEON: And Gaston, I was happier all day long. I felt I'd contributed Well, sir, if you should do it again, which I hope you won't, please remember the order. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet.
GASTON: Well, sir, if you should do it again, which I hope you won't, please remember the order. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet.
LEON: Ah, there's something poetic about the simple processes of labor. Counterpane, blanket, blanket, sheet, sheet. it should be set to music!
GASTON: May I add, sir, that it was with great amazement that I found a copy of Karl Marx's Capital on your night table. That is a socialistic volume which I refuse to so much as dust, sir. I view with alarm, sir, the influence over you of this Bolshevik I can't follow you, Gaston, isn't it about time that you realized the unfairness of your position? You being my servant? Wouldn't you like to stand on an equal footing with No, sir.
LEON: I can't follow you, Gaston, isn't it about time that you realized the unfairness of your position? You being my servant? Wouldn't you like to stand on an equal footing with No, sir.
GASTON: No, sir.
LEON: Isn't there any revolt in you? Sometimes when I order you around don't you feel like kicking me in the pants?
GASTON: ( emphatically ) No, sir.
LEON: Oh, you're a reactionary! Don't you look forward to the day when you can come in here and stand square on your two feet and say, "Hey, you, d'Algout! from now on it's going to be share and share alike"?
GASTON: ( outraged ) Emphatically not, sir. The prospect terrifies me. Now, don't misunderstand me, sir, I don't resent your not paying me for the past two months, but the thought that I should split my bank account with you. that you should take half of my life's savings. that is really too much for me.
LEON: Go to bed, little father, go to bed.
NINOTCHKA: I don't look too foolish?
LEON: Foolish? If this dress were to walk down the boulevard all by itself I would follow it from one end of Paris to the other, and when I caught up with it I would say, "Just a moment, you charming little dress, I want you to meet Ninotchka. you two were meant for each other." Ninotchka feels more comfortable.
LEON: You remember this room?
NINOTCHKA: I've never been here before. I wonder whom you're thinking of. Oh, I know, a girl with a map, figuring out each step, worrying about north and south. Today. now this might shock you. I went up to a taxi and said "Eight Rue du Bois". and here I am.
LEON: You see? Life can be so simple.
NINOTCHKA: For twelve francs, seventy-five.
LEON: Twelve seventy-five from the Clarence? The son-of-a-gun made a detour!. But he got you here.
NINOTCHKA: ( reprimanding him ) It's nine o'clock.
LEON: That's when one half of Paris says to the other half, "What are your plans for this evening, madame?"
NINOTCHKA: ( getting more and more in the spirit of her change of appearance ) Well, first I should like to take off my hat and jacket. ( Leon takes them ) Then could we have some music?
LEON: A wonderful idea! Radio or records?
NINOTCHKA: Not radio. Let's have music that's just for ourselves.
LEON: ( with great feeling and sincerity ) I'll play it softly because I have things to tell you about which I can't shout.
LEON: Well, my darling. I. we.
LEON: ( as they come out of the kiss ) You see I couldn't shout that.
NINOTCHKA: ( with great feeling ) Leon, you know the jokes you told me a few days ago? I wake up in the middle of the night and laugh at them. Now, Leon that's wrong. I know they're not funny, they're silly. They're stupid. And still. I laugh. and when I look at Buljanoff and Iranoff and Kopalski I know they are scoundrels and I should hate them then I realize who made them like that, and instead of sending my report to Moscow I tear it up and go down and buy a ridiculous hat. and if this keeps on. am I too ( radiantly ) No. go on.
LEON: ( radiantly ) No. go on.
NINOTCHKA: Leon, I want to tell you something which I thought I never would say, which I thought nobody ever should say, because I thought it didn't exist. and, Leon. I can't say
LEON: What a gesture for a sergeant.
NINOTCHKA: Leon, I would like to ask you Anything, Ninotchka.
LEON: Anything, Ninotchka.
NINOTCHKA: If you don't want to answer, you needn't. But if you do, you must tell me the truth.
LEON: I promise. I swear.
NINOTCHKA: ( seriously ) Did you make any change in this room?
LEON: I don't think so.
NINOTCHKA: When I was here before I noticed a photograph of a woman on the desk in a wide silver frame. I thought what a waste of silver. That's all that interested me then. Now I would like to know. what happened to the woman?
NINOTCHKA: The Duchess.
NINOTCHKA: ( looking at the picture ) She is very attractive. She has great ( she looks back at Leon ) She's what you call a woman of the world, isn't she?
LEON: ( after a little pause ) Ninotchka, I love you.
NINOTCHKA: I suppose she is very entertaining. It must be lots of fun to be with her, so witty, so glamorous.
LEON: Ninotchka, you're jealous.
NINOTCHKA: ( with great feeling ) Leon, don't ever ask me for a picture of myself. I couldn't bear the thought of being shut up in a drawer. I couldn't breathe, I couldn't stand it.
LEON: My darling.
HEADWAITER: Good evening, Your Highness.
SWANA: Good evening, Louis. You seem to be very crowded tonight. Can you manage a table near the floor?
HEADWAITER: Certainly, Your Highness, this way please. Count d'Algout made the reservation this afternoon.
SWANA: ( puzzled ) Count d'Algout.
HEADWAITER: It is only a small table but it will be no trouble to put in some extra
SWANA: No, that's another party. Why don't we go some other place? It's so crowded here.
LADY: Why don't we go some other place? It's so crowded here.
SWANA: ( delighted at her luck ) No, no! This is glory! At last I'm going to have a look at that female Bolshevik. Can you give us another Only one in the rear, I'm afraid.
HEADWAITER: Only one in the rear, I'm afraid.
SWANA: That's perfect!
SWANA: Isn't it divine?
ANOTHER GUEST: I wouldn't have missed this for the Now, we must be very discreet. If she sucks her soup and drinks out of her finger bowl, I don't want anyone to laugh. We must not embarrass little Leon. He is going through enough for my sake. We mustn't add insult to injury
SWANA: ( very gay, in anticipation of a triumph ) Now, we must be very discreet. If she sucks her soup and drinks out of her finger bowl, I don't want anyone to laugh. ( everybody in the party giggles ) We must not embarrass little Leon. He is going through enough for my sake. We mustn't add insult to injury
HEADWAITER: Is this satisfactory?
SWANA: Thank you, Louis.
HEADWAITER: Is it to be dinner, monsieur?
GENERAL SAVITZKY: Possibly later. We'll just start with champagne.
SWANA: ( to the party ) I'm only afraid that the doorman may spoil our fun. If only he lets her
GENERAL SAVITZKY: Your Highness.
SWANA: Yes, General Savitzky?
GENERAL SAVITZKY: I want you to know all the White Russian exiles in Paris are keeping their fingers crossed about the jewels. They are very interested in the case. Swana suspects her Are they indeed? Thank you.
SWANA: Are they indeed? Thank you.
GENERAL SAVITZKY: They hope the settlement will bring you a fortune.
SWANA: General, please. if you hear any rumors that I am a charitable person, will you please kill them at their
GUEST: Look! There's Leon!
SWANA'S TABLE: Swana's expression freezes as she sees Ninotchka. The rest of the guests stare in an embarrassed silence, save for one bird-brained little guest, named Marianne, who feels it her mission to save the situation.
MARIANNE: Isn't she something?
SWANA: Shall we dance, General Savitzky?
GUEST: Are you crazy?
ANOTHER GUEST: How could you make such a remark?
THIRD GUEST: Swana isn't stupid.
MARIANNE: What did I say? I just said "isn't she something?" I didn't say something
LEON: ( to Waiter ) Is it dry?
WAITER: Yes, monsieur.
LEON: ( to Ninotchka ) Is that right or do you prefer it I wouldn't know. The closest I ever came to champagne was in a newsreel. The wife of some president was throwing it at a battleship.
NINOTCHKA: I wouldn't know. The closest I ever came to champagne was in a newsreel. The wife of some president was throwing it at a battleship.
LEON: It's always good luck to launch something with champagne; a battleship. or an evening.
NINOTCHKA: It's funny to look back. I was brought up on goat's milk, I had a ration of vodka in the army, and now champagne.
LEON: ( gaily ) From goats to grapes. That's drinking in the right direction. Ugh. um. oh. ( slowly the delight of champagne dawns on her and her face breaks into a smile ) It's good. From what I read I thought champagne was a strong drink. It's very delicate. Do people ever get drunk on this?
NINOTCHKA: Ugh. um. oh. It's good. From what I read I thought champagne was a strong drink. It's very delicate. Do people ever get drunk on this?
NINOTCHKA: From what I read I thought champagne was a strong drink. It's very delicate. Do people ever get drunk on this?
LEON: There have been cases. but the headache the next morning is worth while if you drink it with the right toast. To us, Ninotchka!
SWANA: Hello, Leon! What a surprise! You of all people! How are you, my dear?
LEON: ( embarrassed ) Hello, Swana. How do you do, General How do you do?
GENERAL SAVITZKY: How do you do?
SWANA: ( to Leon ) You're looking magnificent, Leon. ( to General Savitzky ) .isn't he, General Savitzky?
GENERAL SAVITZKY: Leon knows that Swana wants to embarrass him but is embarrassed nevertheless.
LEON: Thank you.
SWANA: Is this your new dress suit?
LEON: Yes, Swana.
SWANA: Didn't I tell you Benson and Benson were the tailors for you?
LEON: ( patiently ) Yes, Swana, you did.
SWANA: It's a dream of beauty. He never takes my word for anything, but I was right, wasn't I?
LEON: Yes, Swana.
SWANA: ( forcing an introduction ) Am I interrupting?
LEON: Not at all. Your Highness, may I present Madame Yakushova?
SWANA: How do you do?
NINOTCHKA: How do you do?
LEON: And General Savitzky.
GENERAL SAVITZKY: How do you do?
NINOTCHKA: How do you do?
SWANA: I've some wonderful news for you, Leon. It's about Punchy. do you mind if I sit down?
LEON: ( realizing that he cannot prevent it ) No. please.
SWANA: ( to General Savitzky ) General, would you mind making my excuses at our table? I'll be back in a few moments.
GENERAL SAVITZKY: He bows and leaves.
SWANA: Well, Leon, we can be proud of our Punchy. He had a triumph at the dog
SWANA: ( continuing ) He won another blue ribbon and bit the judge. Ha! ha! ha! I bought him the cutest sweater as a reward. You should see him strut down the street in it. He looks like a little ( to Ninotchka ) You see, Count d'Algout gave me Punchy for my birthday. ( to Leon ) You must have searched weeks before you found anything as divine as Punchy, didn't you, Leon?
LEON: ( fed up with Swana's tactics ) Months, Swana.
SWANA: ( to Ninotchka ) Poor Madame Yakushova. here we are talking in mysteries.. I'm sure you wonder what it's all about.
NINOTCHKA: ( dry and direct ) Not at all.. I understand perfectly, Count d'Algout gave you a dog. You made it very clear, madame.
SWANA: Dear me. I must be losing my finesse. If I'm not careful I'll be understood by everybody.
LEON: ( acutely uncomfortable ) There's a charming crowd here tonight, isn't there?
SWANA: I'm going, Leon. but before I leave I must compliment you on your gown, Madame Yakushova. Is that what they're wearing in Moscow this year?
NINOTCHKA: No, last year, madame.
SWANA: Isn't it amazing! One gets a wrong impression of the new Russia. It must be charming. I'm glad conditions are so improved. I assume this is what the factory workers wear at their dances?
NINOTCHKA: Exactly. You see, it would have been embarrassing for people of my sort to wear low-cut gowns in the old Russia. The lashes of the Cossacks across our backs were not very becoming, and you know how vain women You're absolutely right about the Cossacks. We made an unpardonable mistake when we let them use their knouts. They had such reliable guns. Will you do me a favor? Stop talking about the good old days.
SWANA: You're absolutely right about the Cossacks. We made an unpardonable mistake when we let them use their knouts. They had such reliable guns. Will you do me a favor? Stop talking about the good old days.
LEON: Will you do me a favor? Stop talking about the good old days.
SWANA: A very wise suggestion, Leon. I'm afraid madame and I will never agree. The only thing we have in common is our lawsuit and that will be decided next week. I understand everything will be over by Thursday. Am I right?
NINOTCHKA: You're right, madame, it will all be over by Thursday.
SWANA: ( rubbing it in ) It is unfortunate that you have so few more days in Paris. ( she turns to Leon ) Be sure and redouble your efforts so that madame can take some pleasant memories when she returns to Moscow. ( she rises, Leon rising too ) Good night. ( Ninotchka nods without answering. To Leon ) Good night, Leon.
LEON: ( coldly ) Good night, Swana.
NINOTCHKA: Now I think I need a glass of
NINOTCHKA: ( trying to break the mood ) Quickly, please. tell me one of your funny stories.
LEON: A funny story?
NINOTCHKA: You never finished the one about the two Scotchmen with the names.
LEON: Well, there were two Scotchmen. One was named McIntosh and one was named McGillicuddy. They met on the street.
NINOTCHKA: Go on.
LEON: No, darling. I'll tell you another story, a much better one. The only thing that will be over on Thursday is the lawsuit. There will be no Thursday for us. Not next week or any week. We won't let it happen. I'll tear it out of the calendar. Is that a good story?
NINOTCHKA: ( touched ) Wonderful if one could believe You must, darling.
LEON: You must, darling.
NINOTCHKA: ( lifting her glass ) To the loveliest story I ever heard.
NINOTCHKA: ( afraid of where the conversation may lead ) Shall we dance?
NINOTCHKA: ( tipsily ) Oo! Darling! Something is the matter.
LEON: You just made that trip from goats to grapes a little too fast.
NINOTCHKA: Oh, everything is so wonderful! It's getting farther and farther away!
LEON: What, darling?
NINOTCHKA: Yes. Don't worry. Everything will be all right.
LEON: Yes. Don't worry. Everything will be all right.
NINOTCHKA: Comrades! Comrades!
LEON: ( embarrassed ) Darling, darling. please!
NINOTCHKA: I must talk to my brothers!
LEON: Shhh! Shhh!
NINOTCHKA: Don't shush me. I am People! I want to make a speech. I want to overthrow the Duchess!
LEON: But, darling, you can't do that.
NINOTCHKA: Comrades! Good people of France!
LEON: Now, Ninotchka. please!
NINOTCHKA: They are all Duchesses here. thousands of Duchesses. and I am going to tell them.
LEON: Quite right. yes, yes, yes, but first you're going in that door and you're going to take a little spirits of ammonia and lie down.
NINOTCHKA: ( sweetly ) No speech?
LEON: ( as though he were addressing a little child ) No speech.
NINOTCHKA: I love you, my little Leonitchka!
LEON: And I adore you, Ninotchua.
LEON: ( to the bartender ) Give me a double brandy.
MANAGER: ( very excitedly ) I'm very sorry, Count d'Algout, it is most embarrassing, but the lady you brought with you tonight is spreading communistic propaganda in the powder room.
LEON: Give me another double brandy.
MANAGER: That kind of propaganda is bad anywhere, but inciting the attendants of a powder room to go on strike.. Well, if she succeeds the consequences will be disastrous.
LEON: What can I do about it?
MANAGER: She has been asked to leave the powder room but without success. We would appreciate if you would see to it You want me to go in there?
LEON: ( horrified ) You want me to go in there?
MANAGER: I'm sorry, sir, but I must insist.
LEON: ( completely exhausted to the bartender ) Make it a triple brandy. As we
LEON: ( to Rakonin ) All right. you can tell the Duchess. you can tell everybody. they know anyhow. it doesn't make any difference. now get out!
NINOTCHKA: ( moving close to him ) Don't tell them where we're going, No. Nobody will find us.
LEON: No. Nobody will find us.
NINOTCHKA: Are we going to build our little Yes. a little white house.
LEON: Yes. a little white house.
NINOTCHKA: Not white, darling.
LEON: All right, we'll make it red.
NINOTCHKA: No, don't let's have it any color. no color. just a house house. let's form our own party.
LEON: Right: Lovers of the world unite!
NINOTCHKA: ( delighted ) And we won't stretch up our arms.
LEON: No! No!
NINOTCHKA: .and we won't clench our fist.
LEON: No! No!
NINOTCHKA: ( tenderly ) Our salute will be a kiss.
LEON: Yes. a kiss. salute!
NINOTCHKA: ( still in his arms ) I am so happy. No one can be so happy without being punished. I will be punished and I should be punished. ( she gets up ) I want to confess, darling.
LEON: I know. it's the Russian soul.
NINOTCHKA: ( her gaiety mixed with sadness ) Everyone wants to confess and if they don't confess they make them confess. I am a traitor. When I kissed you I betrayed the Russian ideal. Leon, I should be stood up against the wall.
LEON: ( sympathetically ) Would that make you any happier?
NINOTCHKA: Much happier.
LEON: All right.
NINOTCHKA: ( happily ) I have paid the penalty. Now let's have some music.
LEON: Let's turn on the radio.
NINOTCHKA: Radio! What is radio?
LEON: It's a little box that you buy on the installment plan and before you tune it in they tell you they have a new model.
NINOTCHKA: ( getting up ) Oh yes, yes. It has a little knob that turns. a little knob. it must be somewhere around here. yes. here. I see.
NINOTCHKA: ( triumphantly ) Here it is!
LEON: What shall we get? The news!
NINOTCHKA: No, no news. We don't want to know what's happening in the world. We want to be left alone, don't we?
LEON: Yes, sweetheart. all by ourselves.
NINOTCHKA: ( remembering vaguely ) Well, then we turn twice to the right and stop at seven.
NINOTCHKA: ( after a little pause, sadly ) It's dead.
LEON: Well, it has to warm up. you have to give it a chance. just like people. like you and me. first you wanted to fight me and now we belong to the same party. salute!
NINOTCHKA: ( as though she were in heaven ) Now twice to the left and stop at
NINOTCHKA: ( disappointed ) No music.
LEON: ( also disappointed ) No, no music.
NINOTCHKA: ( bitterly ) There it is. Thursday. you can't rip it out of the week..
LEON: ( helpfully ) But I can throw it out of the window.
NINOTCHKA: ( philosophically ) It wouldn't be fair to the man in the street. ( she pushes back the lid ) There they are. they are terrible things, those jewels..
LEON: .but big.
NINOTCHKA: .they are the tears of Old Russia. see that stone?
LEON: Who cried that one?
NINOTCHKA: Czar Peter gave it to his wife, Catherine the Great. For it he sold ten thousand serfs in the market.
LEON: Now, darling, don't get impatient, wait until we are married. You know that worthless butler of mine. that reactionary? Some day when I come home to you I may say, "Darling, I drove Gaston to the market and look what I got from him!"
NINOTCHKA: ( the economist now ) First ten thousand serfs. now just Gaston. It is very encouraging.
LEON: Come, sweetheart. Let me put it on you. You will teach these jewels. For the first time they will learn how they can look.
NINOTCHKA: They belong to the people.
LEON: ( in a ceremonial voice ) I give them back to the people. ( as formal and steady as possible under the conditions he puts the diadem on her head ) I make you Ninotchka the Great. Duchess of the People!. Grand Duchess of the People! Is this the wish of the masses?
NINOTCHKA: Is this the wish of the masses?
LEON: It is their wish.
NINOTCHKA: Thank you, Leon. thank you, masses. Can I make a speech now?
LEON: Ninotchka turns to an imaginary assemblage.
NINOTCHKA: Comrades! People of the world! The revolution is on the march. I know. wars will wash over us. bombs will fall. all civilization will crumble. but not yet, please. wait, wait. what's the hurry? Let us be happy. give us our We are happy, aren't we, Leon?
LEON: ( fondly ) Yes, sweetheart. ( he holds her in his arms )
NINOTCHKA: ( her voice getting dimmer and dimmer ) So happy and so tired.
NINOTCHKA: ( charmingly ) Smile, little father, smile.
SWANA: ( ironically ) Good morning.
NINOTCHKA: ( awakening gradually ) It is tomorrow morning. tomorrow noon, to be exact. I hope you will forgive me. I know it's extremely cruel to waken anyone at such an hour. Don't you recognize me? I am the Duchess Swana. I know how you feel, my dear. The morning after always does look grim if you happen to be wearing last night's dress. Don't be embarrassed by my presence, though. You couldn't have found anybody more sympathetic to your condition. I remember once in Petrograd when I felt exactly as you do. I had to bow from a balcony to the crowd. My dear, the masses have no understanding of the feelings of a lady before noon. Don't you find that true?
SWANA: It is tomorrow morning. tomorrow noon, to be exact. I hope you will forgive me. I know it's extremely cruel to waken anyone at such an hour. Don't you recognize me? I am the Duchess Swana. I know how you feel, my dear. The morning after always does look grim if you happen to be wearing last night's dress. Don't be embarrassed by my presence, though. You couldn't have found anybody more sympathetic to your condition. I remember once in Petrograd when I felt exactly as you do. I had to bow from a balcony to the crowd. My dear, the masses have no understanding of the feelings of a lady before noon. Don't you find that true?
SWANA: I know how you feel, my dear. The morning after always does look grim if you happen to be wearing last night's dress. Don't be embarrassed by my presence, though. You couldn't have found anybody more sympathetic to your condition. I remember once in Petrograd when I felt exactly as you do. I had to bow from a balcony to the crowd. My dear, the masses have no understanding of the feelings of a lady before noon. Don't you find that true?
NINOTCHKA: I think we can cut your visit short. Leon is not here.
SWANA: Of course not, my dear! I didn't come here with any such suspicion. How ridiculous! Nor did I come here to pick up his
SWANA: ( as she reaches the threshold ) How stale last night's gaiety looks! It has the taste of a dead cigarette.
NINOTCHKA: If you were encouraged to come here by our meeting last night I am afraid you misunderstood my attitude.
SWANA: Don't worry, you were quite rude Do you mind if I let in a little fresh air and sunshine? I'm sure it will make you feel better and I want you to be at your very best. In full possession of your faculties, at Please come to the point. What is it you want?
NINOTCHKA: ( regaining her usual firmness ) Please come to the point. What is it you want?
SWANA: I just dropped in to have a little heart-to-heart talk with you.
NINOTCHKA: We have nothing to discuss.
SWANA: Now there you are completely wrong. If we sit down for a little chat, I'm sure we won't run out of conversation and what's more it won't be dull.
NINOTCHKA: Madame, what is it you people always say, regardless of what you mean. "I am delighted to have you here"? I have not reached that stage of That's all right. I grow on people.
SWANA: That's all right. I grow on people.
NINOTCHKA: I must ask you to leave.
SWANA: Leave? That's exactly what I came here to ask you to do. Leave! I don't mean this hotel and I don't mean Paris. I mean France. There's a plane for Moscow at five-forty.
NINOTCHKA: ( puzzled ) Madame, if you.
SWANA: Don't worry. I have already made reservations. It's perfect flying weather. They assure me there's a fine tail wind which will sweep you back to Moscow in no time.
NINOTCHKA: ( still not understanding ) If this is meant to be a joke it is not funny. Or do you still think you're issuing orders from your palace in Petrograd?
SWANA: ( bitterly ) My palace in Petrograd. yes, you took that away from me. You took away my czar, my country, my people, everything I had. ( with emphasis ) but nothing more I warn you.
NINOTCHKA: ( simply ) People cannot be taken away, madame, neither a hundred and sixty million nor one. Not if you have their love. You hadn't. That's why you're not in Russia any longer, and that's why you came here this morning.
SWANA: Very interesting, my dear, but couldn't you write all that from Moscow? A dissertation on love on Soviet stationery would be an amusing paradox.
NINOTCHKA: It is not enough to be witty, madame. People grow tired of being entertained. You made that mistake before. Problems were never solved by bowing from a balcony.
SWANA: My dear, you don't know how impressive I could be. Did you ever see me in my regalia with my diadem and all my
SWANA: You can't deny we gave the people their money's worth almost eight tumbling Romanoffs eight!
NINOTCHKA: ( desperately ) I must insist that you leave.
SWANA: Not before you agree to use those reservations to Moscow.
NINOTCHKA: In that case I can only say good-by.
NINOTCHKA: ( into the telephone ) Élysée 2763. ( standing in the door ) I wouldn't waken Leon. After last night I would say not before three o'clock at the earliest.
SWANA: ( standing in the door ) I wouldn't waken Leon. After last night I would say not before three o'clock at the earliest.
NINOTCHKA: I told you to go, madame.
SWANA: Believe me, Leon can't help you. He doesn't know anything about the jewels. I give you my word. I swear it. Where are they?
NINOTCHKA: Where are they?
SWANA: You were very careless with our precious jewels, my dear. They're too expensive a toy for two children to play with.
NINOTCHKA: Where are they?
SWANA: Don't worry. Fortunately last night a very trustworthy friend kept his eyes open. Perhaps he overstepped his function as a waiter but he fulfilled his duty as a Russian. I just put this on for sentiment. The rest are absolutely safe. I assure you. But if you feel like notifying the police.
NINOTCHKA: You leave me no choice.
SWANA: Won't it be rather embarrassing for a Soviet Envoy to disclose the circumstances under which she lost I will have to face the consequences, but so will you. Don't forget they will ask how you got them.
NINOTCHKA: I will have to face the consequences, but so will you. Don't forget they will ask how you got them.
SWANA: That's very simple to answer. They were given to me by my mother. They were given to her by her mother, in fact they're mine, you cannot steal what belongs to you!
NINOTCHKA: They always belonged to the Russian people. They were paid for with their sweat, their blood, their lives and you will give them back!
SWANA: ( triumphantly ) I told you we had plenty to talk about. Shall we sit down?
SWANA: ( very matter-of-fact ) Now, let's free ourselves from emotionalism and try to solve the problem in a practical way. Our situation has changed considerably. Before I had only a claim to the jewels. Now I have the jewels.
NINOTCHKA: In other words moral ideas have no weight with you. all right, then let's deal with legal facts. You know that France has recognized the Under Soviet law the jewels belong to the State. France is going to uphold that ownership.
SWANA: Under Soviet law the jewels belong to the State. France is going to uphold that ownership.
NINOTCHKA: Under Soviet law the jewels belong to the State. France is going to uphold that ownership.
SWANA: My lawyer agrees with you. He says France will uphold it in every court, but I will drag you through every court, don't forget that. And when I say it will take two years I am, as always, conservative.
NINOTCHKA: Won't those two years in court be expensive for you? I know that money was no object as long as you could squeeze it from the pockets of the people, but now.
SWANA: I may run out of money, but you have already run out of bread. Two years is a long time for your comrades to I see. You have calculated in terms of hunger.
NINOTCHKA: I see. You have calculated in terms of hunger.
SWANA: No, I just wanted to be absolutely impartial. Both of us are faced with two rather uncomfortable years. We can condense these two years to two minutes if you want to accept my proposition. Ninotchka now realizes what she is after.
NINOTCHKA: Go on.
SWANA: I am willing to hand over the jewels and sign the necessary papers if you take that five-forty plane to Moscow.
NINOTCHKA: ( quietly ) That's not the way to win him back. not Leon.
SWANA: I think I know Leon quite as well as you. possibly a little better. Leave that worry to me. Five-forty leaves you time enough to close the deal with Monsieur Mercier, but naturally you'll be too busy for any farewells. I'll see to it that everything is done in the most expeditious manner and I will also see you to the airport. That's my proposition, Comrade Yakushova.
NINOTCHKA: ( into telephone ) ( it is Leon ) Oh hello.
NINOTCHKA: Good morning, Leon. . no, you didn't waken me. I am fine, thank you.. Yes, it was. marvelous.. What?. for luncheon? I'm afraid I can't. I am going to be very busy. well, I have a lot of things to attend to today.. What?. Well to tell you the truth I am a little tired and I would like to rest. you may be right. perhaps it is the champagne.. For dinner?. Of course. seven o'clock here?. seven o'clock is all right.. Where?. That will be lovely.. Come in. Just a moment.
NINOTCHKA: ( to bellboy ) You can leave it here.
INSERT: ".and sweetheart, I have kept my first promise. I sent poor old Gaston to the market this morning and if you will look deep into the flowers you will see what I got for CLOSE SHOT NINOTCHKA She puts her hand in the basket and takes out a bottle of INSERT OF THE BOTTLE On the label we see a picture of a goat.
NINOTCHKA: She smiles sadly and goes to the telephone, which is on the console in the anteroom.
NINOTCHKA: ( into telephone ) Operator, will you switch the call please?. Hello?. Darling, your present just arrived.. It's very silly and very wonderful. thank you. No, I won't forget. seven ( with great tenderness ) Good-by, my darling.. What?. ( softly )
NINOTCHKA: I am sorry to have kept you waiting,
SWANA: Good afternoon, Jacqueline.
MAID: Good afternoon, Your Highness. Madame, I.
SWANA: You didn't find my glove. All right, you're forgiven.
MAID: Thank you, Your Highness. Count d'Algout is waiting. He's been here some time.
SWANA: Leon, darling, how nice! Have you ordered tea or a cocktail?
LEON: No thanks, Swana.
SWANA: Did I act stupidly last night? Should I apologize?
LEON: I'm the one who should apologize. I should have talked to you before.
SWANA: Is this, by any chance, going to be a confession?
LEON: Oh, no, my little Volga boatman. Have you forgotten our First Commandment: Never Complain Never Explain. It has worked so often and so perfectly, don't let's break the rule. And please don't look so guilty, otherwise I'll.
SWANA: Oh, no, my little Volga boatman. Have you forgotten our First Commandment: Never Complain Never Explain. It has worked so often and so perfectly, don't let's break the rule. And please don't look so guilty, otherwise I'll.
LEON: This time, Swana just this once I must ask you to listen.
SWANA: All right, I'll listen.
LEON: I know you hate the obvious but do you mind if, at this moment, I'm not in the least subtle?
SWANA: Brutal frankness, if you insist.
LEON: There are a hundred ways to approach it, but I feel it can best be said in one simple phrase. I'm in love, And I thought it was something serious! How could you frighten me It must be serious, Swana. Not long ago I'd have considered such a statement rather juvenile and rather middle class. Now I can say it without stammering, without a blush. I'm in love, Swana.
SWANA: And I thought it was something serious! How could you frighten me It must be serious, Swana. Not long ago I'd have considered such a statement rather juvenile and rather middle class. Now I can say it without stammering, without a blush. I'm in love, Swana.
LEON: It must be serious, Swana. Not long ago I'd have considered such a statement rather juvenile and rather middle class. Now I can say it without stammering, without a blush. I'm in love, Swana.
SWANA: Say it over and over again, Leon. Words are a wonderful safety valve, and that's what you need because you know it's impossible, don't you?
LEON: I have to be simple again, Swana, and you may find it shockingly banal. I've thought it over and I'm willing to take all the consequences, even if it means a complete readjustment of my way of living.
SWANA: Leon! This has the ugly sound of I'm afraid that's what it is.
LEON: I'm afraid that's what it is.
SWANA: The same old trouble, Leon. You're always late. Whether you're taking me to the Opera or calling for me at a beauty shop, you're never on time. And now, when it's a question of your reform late again. By about five minutes.
LEON: What is this, Swana?
SWANA: Knowing the efficiency of the French Air Service I think I can guarantee that Madame Yakushova has already taken off for Moscow.
LEON: Has done what?
SWANA: She's gone, Leon.
LEON: Do you expect me to believe that?
SWANA: Here's the telephone. If you call the hotel you will find that you have no seven o'clock appointment.
BULJANOFF: Imagine, for once in our lives we were in Paris and we never went to the Eiffel Tower.
KOPALSKI: That's right.
IRANOFF: They tell me it has a wonderful restaurant on the second floor.
KOPALSKI: While you eat, you look at the view.
NINOTCHKA: Yes, it is an amazing piece of engineering. Still the most remarkable iron structure in the world. Leading to the top there is a staircase of over a thousand steps. but an elevator is included in the price of
INTOURISTE BUREAU: It is a typical travel bureau. Behind the counter are attendants and some people getting information and pamphlets. Leon enters, looks around, and sees a door which says "Visas and Passport Department." He enters.
OFFICIAL: Well, everything is in order. I hope you will enjoy your trip to Russia, Thank you. Oh, by the way, I've heard so many rumors about laundry conditions in Russia. Is it advisable to take one's own towels?
ENGLISH LADY: Thank you. Oh, by the way, I've heard so many rumors about laundry conditions in Russia. Is it advisable to take one's own towels?
OFFICIAL: Certainly not, madame. That's only capitalistic propaganda. We change the towel every week.
ENGLISH LADY: Oh. thank you.
OFFICIAL: Yes, please? Yes. Comrade Cazabine? No, I'm sorry. he hasn't been with us for six months. He was called back to Russia and was investigated. You can get further details from his widow.
OFFICIAL: ( into phone ) Yes. Comrade Cazabine? No, I'm sorry. he hasn't been with us for six months. He was called back to Russia and was investigated. You can get further details from his widow.
LEON: Pardon me, I am very interested in what you just said you mean when an envoy goes back to Russia if they don't like what he has done they put him out of the way?
OFFICIAL: Not always. look at me. I've been back twice.
LEON: ( his alarm growing ) Here's my passport.. Please give me a visa. I have to leave for Russia ( reading passport ) Count Leon d'Algout. a count!. a Don't hold that against me. please!
OFFICIAL: ( reading passport ) Count Leon d'Algout. a count!. a Don't hold that against me. please!
LEON: Don't hold that against me. please!
OFFICIAL: Why should an aristocrat want to go to Russia?
LEON: What business?
OFFICIAL: What business?
LEON: There is no privacy in Russia. This whole thing seems very suspicious. What's the real reason? If you ever want to get into Russia, take my advice. confess!
OFFICIAL: There is no privacy in Russia. This whole thing seems very suspicious. What's the real reason? If you ever want to get into Russia, take my advice. confess!
LEON: ( dismayed ) Confess what?
OFFICIAL: Are you sympathetic to the former Czaristic government the White On the contrary I don't want to have anything to do with them.
LEON: On the contrary I don't want to have anything to do with them.
OFFICIAL: You believe in our cause?
LEON: Oh. I think it's great! Everyone works everyone contributes that's what I want to do work! I make my own bed you can call up my butler! I don't believe in the right of the individual. I like the Bolshevik ideal everyone being the same. You just like me me just like you I use your comb you use my toothbrush oh, it's a great life.. Please. give me that visa!
SWANA: Hello, Leon darling!
LEON: ( startled ) ( suavely ) After our talk last night I took it for granted that you would drop in here this morning. Knowing how difficult it is to get into Soviet Russia, I thought I might be of some assistance to you. ( to the Official ) May I introduce myself? I am the Duchess Swana of Russia. another
SWANA: ( suavely ) After our talk last night I took it for granted that you would drop in here this morning. Knowing how difficult it is to get into Soviet Russia, I thought I might be of some assistance to you. May I introduce myself? I am the Duchess Swana of Russia. another
LEON: Now, please, Swana.
SWANA: ( to the Official ) Count d'Algout was for several years my personal representative and if it is necessary to sign any affidavit for him I'll be delighted.
LEON: ( bitterly ) That does it, Swana. ( he leads her toward the door ) Now you mustn't miss your appointment with your hair-dresser.
SWANA: ( stopping at the door ) Just in case they don't give you your visa to Russia I want you to know that I have signed a contract for my memoirs and rented a lovely little château in the Touraine, and if you feel the need of a change.
LEON: Thank you, Swana. You are very
LEON: She must have her little joke. You're not going to take that The Grand Duchess Swana. active in the White Russian movement?
OFFICIAL: The Grand Duchess Swana. active in the White Russian movement?
LEON: Believe me, I have no connection with her any longer. I swear I But you had!
OFFICIAL: But you had!
LEON: Listen, I want to be absolutely frank with you. I have no business in I think so too.
OFFICIAL: I think so too.
LEON: I want to see a friend of mine. a very dear friend.. It's a personal matter which has nothing to do with politics or social philosophies.. It's a girl.
OFFICIAL: So it's love which drags you to No visa.
LEON: No visa.
OFFICIAL: No visa.
LEON: ( fighting for his point ) I must get into that country of yours!
OFFICIAL: Oh no. No visa.
LEON: ( more aggressively ) That's impossible! Nobody has the right.. You can't do that!. If you don't give me that visa.
OFFICIAL: ( ironically ) You're going to force us. huh?
LEON: ( growing violent ) Now look here. you advertise all over the world that you want people to go into your country and when someone tries to get in, you keep him out!
OFFICIAL: Why should I take a chance?
LEON: On what?
OFFICIAL: How do I know you don't want to blow up a factory?
LEON: What for. why?
OFFICIAL: Or a tunnel or a bridge.
LEON: Suspicions. nothing but suspicions!. That's the trouble with you! If you don't let me in I'll stand in front of this office of yours and warn people to keep away from Russia!. I'll picket your whole country..
LEON: I'll boycott you, that's what I'm going to do!. No more vodka. no more caviar. no more Tchaikovsky. no more borscht.. Wait a minute, I know something better than that.
OFFICIAL: With a knock-out blow, Leon sends him to the floor, then, leaning over the counter, he shouts.
LEON: And you can tell the Kremlin that's just the beginning!
OFFICIAL: No visa.
RADIO ANNOUNCER: RADIO ANNOUNCER
RADIO ANNOUNCER: March, march, march! Comrades of the World, never has there been such a May Day parade as this! Already for four hours the pavements of Moscow have resounded to the tread of a million boots! Thousands of gun- carriages have thundered past. Thousands of tanks, combined with our mighty air force, have demonstrated to a belligerent neighbor that we are ready and invincible! Now past me marches the great army of our civilians! Men and women of all ages. All servants of the State united in one thought and ideal. Group of Several Units Marching
NINOTCHKA'S ROOM: It is a comparatively small room, which she shares with two other girls. As she enters only one girl is present. It is Anna, a cello player, who sits on the edge of her bed practicing on her cello. Apparently Ninotchka has not adjusted herself completely to the Moscow which she once thought so
NINOTCHKA: Good evening, Anna.
ANNA: Good evening, Ninotchka.
NINOTCHKA: Aren't you late?
ANNA: No, the opera starts an hour later tonight on account of the parade. Didn't you march?
NINOTCHKA: Didn't you march?
ANNA: They didn't let me. I am in disgrace. Last week at the performance of Carmen I played a sour note. The conductor got so excited he yelled, "There's sabotage in the string section!"
NINOTCHKA: Too bad. you missed an inspiring day, Anna.
ANNA: I know. my heart is sad. but my feet are happy. When all the tanks and guns were roaring over the Red Square I sat here all by myself and played a Beethoven sonata. Not bad at all. Are you expecting someone?
NINOTCHKA: A few friends. just a little dinner What are you serving?
ANNA: What are you serving?
NINOTCHKA: An omelet.
ANNA: ( puzzled ) An omelet! Aren't you living a little above your ration?
NINOTCHKA: Well, I've saved up two eggs and each of my friends is bringing his own so we'll manage.
ANNA: It just goes to prove the theory of our State. If you stand alone it means a boiled egg but if you're true to the collective spirit and stick together you've got an omelet. That reminds me. have you heard the latest they're telling about the
ANNA: ( whispering ) I'll tell you later. ( after Gurganov has disappeared into the other room she continues ) That Gurganov, you never know whether he's on his way to the washroom or the Secret Police.
NINOTCHKA: You should be more careful, Anna.
ANNA: And you too, Ninotchka.
NINOTCHKA: ( amazed ) About what?
ANNA: Ever since you have been back from I haven't talked to anyone about Paris. I haven't said a word.
NINOTCHKA: I haven't talked to anyone about Paris. I haven't said a word.
ANNA: That's just it. It makes people feel queer. I dont' want you to get in any trouble.
NINOTCHKA: I have nothing to hide.
ANNA: You should. I'll show you.
ANNA: When I passed through the laundry yard today I saw all the women huddled around this so I brought it up here. Things like this create a bad feeling. First they didn't know whose it was. Then they saw the Paris label and did it start a commotion! Some said it's what we all ought to wear and others said it's like hanging foreign ideas on our clothesline. It undermines our whole cause.
NINOTCHKA: ( aware of the pettiness which surrounds her ) I see.
ANNA: You know how it is today. all you have to do is wear a pair of silk stockings and they suspect you of Thank you, Anna. I'll dry it up here when I wash it next. I should hate to see our country endangered by my Ninotchka, you know I am your friend, you can trust me.. Did you bring back anything else?
NINOTCHKA: Thank you, Anna. I'll dry it up here when I wash it next. I should hate to see our country endangered by my Ninotchka, you know I am your friend, you can trust me.. Did you bring back anything else?
ANNA: ( confidentially ) Ninotchka, you know I am your friend, you can trust me.. Did you bring back anything else?
NINOTCHKA: ( with feeling ) No, I left everything in Paris. I just happened to be wearing this.
ANNA: Tell me. what else did you have?
NINOTCHKA: ( enjoying the thought ) Well, a hat.
ANNA: What was it like?
NINOTCHKA: It was very silly.. I would be ashamed to wear it here.
ANNA: As beautiful as that? What else? Come, tell me.
NINOTCHKA: An evening gown.
ANNA: ( puzzled ) Evening gown?
NINOTCHKA: A dress you wear in the evening.
ANNA: What do you wear in the morning?
NINOTCHKA: When you get up you put on a negligee, and then you change to a morning You mean to tell me you wear a different dress for different times of the day?
ANNA: You mean to tell me you wear a different dress for different times of the day?
NINOTCHKA: Now, Ninotchka, you're exaggerating.
ANNA: Now, Ninotchka, you're exaggerating.
NINOTCHKA: No, my dear, it is true. That's how they live in the other world. Here we dress to have our bodies covered. to keep warm..
ANNA: And there?
NINOTCHKA: Well, sometimes they're not completely covered but. they don't freeze.
ANNA: ( fingering the piece of lingerie ) They must have wonderful materials to make a thing like this so soft. something you don't even see.
NINOTCHKA: You feel it, though.
ANNA: ( hesitantly ) Ninotchka, I wouldn't bring this up if we weren't such good friends.
NINOTCHKA: What is it, Anna?
ANNA: You know I told you that Pavlov and I are going to get married when he comes back from the maneuvers. Would it be asking too much.
NINOTCHKA: You want this?
ANNA: Just for the honeymoon.
NINOTCHKA: You can have it for good. It is my wedding present.
ANNA: Ninotchka! Ninotchka!
ANNA: Am I going to play that cadenza
NINOTCHKA: No music.
NINOTCHKA: ( with great warmth ) How are you, you three scoundrels?
KOPALSKI: ( wryly ) Well, we're back home.
BULJANOFF: ( sourly ) You know what they say there's nothing like home.
IRANOFF: That's right. and we might as well face it.
NINOTCHKA: ( trying not to say what she feels ) Come, now, you must not talk that way.. You have to adjust yourselves.. We must be brave.
IRANOFF: Brave. that's right.
BULJANOFF: Let's be happy that we're all alive.
IRANOFF: And that's something we owe to If you hadn't given Commissar Razinin such a wonderful report about us, who knows what would have happened?
KOPALSKI: If you hadn't given Commissar Razinin such a wonderful report about us, who knows what would have happened?
BULJANOFF: I can tell you exactly.
NINOTCHKA: Now let's forget everything except that we're together.
BULJANOFF: That's right.
IRANOFF: Let's do that.
KOPALSKI: ( falling in with her attempt ) It's a real Paris reunion.
IRANOFF: If you close your eyes and listen to our voices we might be in Paris.
NINOTCHKA: Let's not close our eyes. There are many good things to see here too.
BULJANOFF: ( cynically ) I think I need my glasses.
KOPALSKI: ( reprimanding him quietly ) A little more tact. look how nicely she's fixed the table all for us.
BULJANOFF: ( in a loud voice, trying to make up for his faux pas ) How nicely you've fixed the table, What a lovely room you have here.
IRANOFF: What a lovely room you have here.
BULJANOFF: How many families live here with Only myself and two other girls. One is a cello player in the opera and the other a street-car conductor.
NINOTCHKA: Only myself and two other girls. One is a cello player in the opera and the other a street-car conductor.
IRANOFF: ( impressed ) Just three people in a room this size? Whew!
KOPALSKI: ( inspecting the room ) And your own gas cooker? That's ( forgetting himself ) Naturally it's not the Royal Suite.
NINOTCHKA: Sssh! Once and for all, we're in Yes, there's no doubt of that. Just look out of the window and there it is.
KOPALSKI: ( walking over to the window ) Yes, there's no doubt of that. ( sarcastically ) Just look out of the window and there it is.
NINOTCHKA: And it's great! Think what it was a few years ago and what it is now.
IRANOFF: She's right. anyhow let's talk ourselves into it.
BULJANOFF: Just see how happy the people look. from here..
KOPALSKI: Can you blame them?. at least the May Day parade is over.
BULJANOFF: That's another thing. it's spring.
NINOTCHKA: The same spring we had in Paris. Just as good.
KOPALSKI: Even the swallows are back.
IRANOFF: Maybe that's the same swallow we saw in Paris!
BULJANOFF: It is, Ninotchka! It is! He must have been in Paris! You can see it in his whole attitude! He just picked up a crumb of our black bread, shook his head, and dropped it.
KOPALSKI: If you asked him why he left France I bet he couldn't name one good I should be a swallow! Right now I would be sitting in front of the Café de Paris picking up flakes of French pastry that would melt in my Now, comrades. there is something better in life than crumbs of French Yes, a good piece of apfel strudel..
BULJANOFF: I should be a swallow! Right now I would be sitting in front of the Café de Paris picking up flakes of French pastry that would melt in my Now, comrades. there is something better in life than crumbs of French Yes, a good piece of apfel strudel..
NINOTCHKA: Now, comrades. there is something better in life than crumbs of French Yes, a good piece of apfel strudel..
KOPALSKI: ( the realist ) Yes, a good piece of apfel strudel..
NINOTCHKA: We will get that. we'll get everything. maybe a little bit later but we'll get it. We must be patient. Finally we got the spring, didn't we? We got the swallows, and you will get your apfel strudel too.
BULJANOFF: ( consolingly ) And if it is too late for you your children will eat it.
IRANOFF: ( breaking the mood ) Let's forget the future. let's stop being sentimental. let's start that omelet.
KOPALSKI: That's right. Here's my egg.
IRANOFF: And here's mine.
BULJANOFF: Comrades. I'm out of the omelet.
NINOTCHKA: Don't worry. there will be enough.
IRANOFF: Come, Ninotchka, let's make it in real Parisian style!
KOPALSKI: Let's fill it with confitures, des .des raisins de Madère, des
BULJANOFF: .des raisins de Madère, des
IRANOFF: .des petites fraises des bois. de la crème de Bretagne.
KOPALSKI: .so it blows up that big. what they call an Omelette Surprise!
BULJANOFF: And the surprise is there's nothing in it.
KOPALSKI: I know, but if we can't put in all these wonderful things at least let's put in some imagination. In that one omelet we'll taste the whole of Paris!
IRANOFF: ( seeing him )
IRANOFF: A man like that. all he has to do is to walk through a room and the omelet drops.
VLADIMIR: ( calling into the room ) Comrade Yakushova, here, the postman left a letter for you.
NINOTCHKA: It's from Paris.
KOPALSKI: A bill?
NINOTCHKA: From Leon.
IRANOFF: ( very sympathetic ) Bad news?
NINOTCHKA: Look for yourselves.
KOPALSKI: Well, I think it's getting late. Good night, Ninotchka.
IRANOFF: Thank you for a wonderful dinner.
NINOTCHKA: ( with great warmth ) Good night, my friends.
BULJANOFF: They can't censor our memories, can
RAZININ: Good morning, Comrade.
NINOTCHKA: ( very businesslike ) Good morning, Comrade Commissar. Here is my report on the materials available for trading in the next four months.
RAZININ: Does this include the products of the Far Eastern provinces?
NINOTCHKA: Yes, it does.
RAZININ: You mean you have finished the whole That's marvelous.. You must have worked day and night.. Don't you ever sleep?
NINOTCHKA: That's marvelous.. You must have worked day and night.. Don't you ever sleep?
RAZININ: That's marvelous.. You must have worked day and night.. Don't you ever sleep?
NINOTCHKA: I need very little sleep. We must be extremely careful what goods we take in exchange. I have already started a survey of our most urgent needs.
RAZININ: Well, Comrade, I am afraid you will have to turn over that work to someone May I ask why?
NINOTCHKA: ( startled ) May I ask why?
RAZININ: Please. sit down.
RAZININ: Thank you.
NINOTCHKA: Thank you.
RAZININ: Well, Comrade, have you heard from your friends Kopalski, Buljanoff, and Iranoff?
NINOTCHKA: I haven't either, but I've heard about them. You must realize it was only on the strength of your Paris report that I sent them to Constantinople; without that I never would have trusted them on a mission as important as the fur deal.
RAZININ: I haven't either, but I've heard about them. You must realize it was only on the strength of your Paris report that I sent them to Constantinople; without that I never would have trusted them on a mission as important as the fur deal.
NINOTCHKA: May I ask what has happened?
RAZININ: As soon as our representatives go to a foreign country they seem to lose all sense of balance. If I told you what's going on in Constantinople right now you wouldn't believe it. Those three have been sitting there for six weeks and haven't sold a piece of fur. This anonymous report was sent me. They are dragging the good name of our country through every café and night club. Here. "How can the Bolshevik cause gain respect among the Moslems if your three representatives, Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski, get so drunk that they throw a carpet out of their hotel window and complain to the management that it didn't fly?"
NINOTCHKA: Oh, they shouldn't do such things. Are you sure this report is correct?
RAZININ: It gives details which couldn't be invented. Naturally I want to verify it and that's why I need you.
NINOTCHKA: ( apprehensively ) You want me to go to Constantinople?
RAZININ: Yes. leaving immediately.
NINOTCHKA: ( her one object to escape the mission ) I appreciate the confidence you show in me, but I must ask you to entrust someone else with this mission. I should hate to interrupt my present work. I am positive that my survey is more important than finding out whether three of our comrades have been drinking some extra glasses of ( austerely ) That is for me to decide, Comrade I am sorry, I don't want to overstep my position but please. don't send me.
RAZININ: ( austerely ) That is for me to decide, Comrade I am sorry, I don't want to overstep my position but please. don't send me.
NINOTCHKA: I am sorry, I don't want to overstep my position but please. don't send me.
RAZININ: I don't understand.
NINOTCHKA: ( making a last effort ) How can I make myself clear. It is difficult to express but I'd rather not go to foreign countries any more. Please, Comrade. let me stay here. let me finish my work. I am in the rhythm of it now. I don't want to go away. I don't want to be sent into that foreign atmosphere again. It throws one out of gear.. Let me finish my work. I have concentrated everything in it. Please. don't make me go.
RAZININ: Please don't waste my time, Comrade. Do your duty. Good-by.
NINOTCHKA: I will do my best.
KOPALSKI: ( indicating the room ) How do you like it, Ninotchka? Isn't it wonderful?
NINOTCHKA: But Buljanoff, Iranoff, Kopalski.
IRANOFF: Now, please, Ninotchka, don't start figuring it out in cows.
NINOTCHKA: You've done it again and I am responsible. How can you forget yourselves this way? You were sent here to make money, not to spend it.
IRANOFF: Buljanoff, she still has those old- fashioned Bolshevik ideas.
BULJANOFF: It is high time you got out of Russia.
NINOTCHKA: ( not knowing what to do with the three rascals ) I must be stern with you.
KOPALSKI: ( delighted ) That's our old Ninotchka!
NINOTCHKA: Don't forget, the day will come when you will have to face Razinin.
BULJANOFF: ( cockily ) Good old Razinin! Is he still alive? How does he manage?
NINOTCHKA: But, Comrades.
KOPALSKI: ( with the happiness of being free again in his voice ) We are not comrades any more. we are friends, Ninotchka.
BULJANOFF: Imagine, we don't have to whisper any longer.
IRANOFF: We can say whatever we want. We can shout. we can complain. Look. The service in this hotel is terrible! See? Nobody comes. nobody pays any attention. That's freedom.
BULJANOFF: ( dryly ) No, that's bad management.
NINOTCHKA: Is it possible to bring you back to reality for a moment? I must have a complete report of your negotiations and a detailed expense account.
BULJANOFF: Don't ask for it, Ninotchka. There is a Turkish proverb which says, "If something smells bad, why put your nose in it?"
NINOTCHKA: And there is a Russian saying: "The cat who has cream on his whiskers had better find good excuses."
BULJANOFF: With our cream situation what it is, it is Russia which should apologize to the cats.
NINOTCHKA: ( helplessly ) Friends. friends, Buljanoff, ( afraid of being left out ) .and Kopalski.
KOPALSKI: ( afraid of being left out ) .and Kopalski.
NINOTCHKA: ( pleadingly ) Don't make it difficult for me. This is no more a pleasure trip for me than it is for you.
IRANOFF: That was our idea when we first came. All we thought we would get out of this trip was a Turkish bath, but. we learned better.
KOPALSKI: Ninotchka, we are in the magic East, the country of Aladdin and His Lamp.
IRANOFF: .Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves. into one single hour you can crowd a thousand and one nights.
BULJANOFF: All you have to do is say "open I don't know how I can get you out of it this time. How will it end? What will happen to you?
NINOTCHKA: I don't know how I can get you out of it this time. How will it end? What will happen to you?
BULJANOFF: ( intimately ) Shall we tell her?
BULJANOFF: ( proudly ) Ninotchka, I hope you'll be our guest.
NINOTCHKA: We have opened a restaurant.
BULJANOFF: We have opened a restaurant.
IRANOFF: .we have a wonderful electric sign: "Dine With Buljanof, Iranoff, and You mean you are deserting Russia?
NINOTCHKA: You mean you are deserting Russia?
KOPALSKI: ( singing the song of freedom ) Don't call it desertion. Our little restaurant. that is our Russia. the Russia of borscht, the Russia of beef Stroganoff, blinis with sour .the Russia of piroshki. people will eat and love it.
IRANOFF: .the Russia of piroshki. people will eat and love it.
BULJANOFF: We are not only serving good food, we are serving our country. we are making friends.
NINOTCHKA: ( completely bewildered ) Who gave you this idea? What is responsible for all this?
KOPALSKI: ( with a gleam in his eye ) There's something in Constantinople. something irresistible..
IRANOFF: .it is in the air. it may come around the corner as you walk down the street..
BULJANOFF: .it may step out of a bazaar. it may wait for you in a corridor. it may hide in the shadow of a Right now it's on the balcony.
KOPALSKI: ( pointing to the balcony ) Right now it's on the balcony.
LEON: ( looking longingly at Ninotchka ) They wouldn't let me in so I had to get you out.
NINOTCHKA: ( still taken aback ) So you're behind all this. I should have known.
LEON: Trying to keep me away from you! It couldn't be done. Naturally I couldn't go on forever punching passport officials in the nose but I found a way, didn't I? Darling, I had to see you. I wrote and wrote but all my letters came back.
NINOTCHKA: The one I got they wouldn't let me It began, "Ninotchka, my darling," and ended, "Yours, Leon."
LEON: ( with great feeling and sincerity ) I won't tell you what came between. I'll prove it. It will take a long time, Ninotchka. at least a
NINOTCHKA: But, Leon, I am only here for a few If you don't stay with me, I'll have to continue my fight. I'll travel wherever Russian commissions are. I'll turn them all into Buljanoffs, Iranoffs, and Kopalskis. The world will be crowded with Russian restaurants. I'll depopulate Russia. Once you saved your country by going back. This time you can save it by staying here.
LEON: If you don't stay with me, I'll have to continue my fight. I'll travel wherever Russian commissions are. I'll turn them all into Buljanoffs, Iranoffs, and Kopalskis. The world will be crowded with Russian restaurants. I'll depopulate Russia. Once you saved your country by going back. This time you can save it by staying here.
NINOTCHKA: Well, when it is a choice between my personal interest and the good of my country, how can I waver? No one shall say Ninotchka was a bad Russian.
THE END: Writers : Melchior Lengyel Charles Brackett Billy Wilder Walter Reisch
