MICKEY: What kind of pies do you have?
MABEL: Apple, pecan, cherry, and key lime.
MICKEY: Which do you recommend?
MABEL: The key lime is great, but it's an acquired taste.
MICKEY: I haven't had a key lime pie in ten years.
MABEL: When ya had it, did ya like it?
MICKEY: No, but that don't mean much. I was a completely different person ten years ago. Let's give key lime a day in court. And a large glass of milk.
MALLORY: Nada, Rosey.
MABEL: (annoyed) My name's not Rosey. (points at name tag) It's Mabel.
MALLORY: Whatever.
MABEL: Hey, what the hell do you think you're doin'?
MABEL: (to Mickey) She ought not be doing that. That's for Jerry's kids, not rock 'n roll.
MICKEY: I can't take her anywhere.
EARL: Goddamn this sumbitch is runnin' hot. Y'all go inside. I'm gonna check 'er out.
SONNY: Good God almighty. What the hell is that?
OTIS: That's a bitch outta hell, son.
SONNY: Take a run at 'er, kiddo.
SONNY: Miller, Mabel.
MABEL: Comin' up.
SONNY: (to Mickey) That's some sweet piece of meat, ain't it?
MICKEY: Her name's Mallory.
OTIS: Hells Bells! Don't stop now sugar. I'm just getting warmed up.
SONNY: Hey, I think she's sweet on you.
MICKEY: Just because my woman's mopping up the floor with your buddy is no reason for you to join in.
MICKEY: Honey.
MICKEY: (to Mallory) Pick one.
MALLORY: Eanie, meanie, minie, moe, catch a nigger by the tow. If he hollers, let him go. Eanie, meanie, minie, moe. My mom told me to pick the best one and you are it.
MALLORY: When you tell people what went on here, tell 'em Mickey and Mallory Knox did this. Understand?
CAPTAIN SQUERI: Send Scagnetti in here.
SCAGNETTI: You wanted to see me, Capt'n?
CAPTAIN SQUERI (O.S.): Scagnetti, go up to interrogation room C. Dewight McClusky, chairman of the prison board, is waiting to meet you. You're gonna deliver two prisoners from the county jail to Nystrom Insane Asylum in Bakersfield.
SCAGNETTI: This is bullshit. I'm a detective. You want an errand boy, call Jerry Lewis.
CAPTAIN SQUERI (O.S.): Jack!
SCAGNETTI: Jack Scagnetti. You wanted to see me?
MCCLUSKY: Congratulations on the Curtis Fox case, Scagnetti. You put an end to a nightmare. The ladies of this city can get to sleep again, and they have you to thank.
SCAGNETTI: Thank you, sir.
MCCLUSKY: Dewight McClusky of the California Prison Board. Take a seat please.
MCCLUSKY: (referring to book) This is damn good reading. I'm surprised Hollywood hasn't found you. This would make a better movie than that 'Serpico' shit.
MCCLUSKY: I think you'll find that good reading as well. Mickey and Mallory's file. You familiar with them?
SCAGNETTI: Who isn't?
MCCLUSKY: You been followin' the news coverage?
SCAGNETTI: They've been separated since their incarceration in a couple of penitentiaries---
MCCLUSKY: Susanville, Soledade.
SCAGNETTI: They've killed a shitload of inmates and guards---
MCCLUSKY: Five inmates, eight guards and one psychiatrist all in one year's time... Very good. You do keep up with the headlines.
MCCLUSKY: Look, our situation in a nutshell is, no prison wants 'em, no prison will take 'em. I'm even talkin' hellholes, where the warden's as hard as a bar of iron. No one wants those fuckin' assholes behind their walls, dealin' with 'em day in, day out.
SCAGNETTI: I can appreciate that.
MCCLUSKY: So can we. So the solution to our little problem is we had them deemed crazy. And we're shippin' 'em to Nystrom Asylum for the criminally insane.
SCAGNETTI: Lobotomy Bay?
MCCLUSKY: You've heard of it?
SCAGNETTI: So, how do I fit into this scheme?
MCCLUSKY: The public loves you Jack...You don't mind if I call you Jack, do you?
SCAGNETTI: By all means.
MCCLUSKY: You're a celebrated cop. Twenty-six years on the force, a best-seller out on paperback...
MCCLUSKY: A modern day Pat Garret. A hell bent lawman with a deadly axe to grind with maniacs.
MCCLUSKY: You're a breathing icon of justice and that's why you were chosen to deliver Mr. and Mrs. Knox. We, the prison board we, knows that once you get them on the road if anything should happen, an escape attempt, an accident, fire, anything...Jack 'Supercop' Scagnetti would be there to look out for his public's best interests.
SCAGNETTI: I see.
MCCLUSKY: You write the script Jack, call it, 'Showdown in Mojave: The extermination of Mickey and Mallory', whatever... Have we found our man?
MCCLUSKY: Pete, open it up! I'm comin' through with a visitor!
MCCLUSKY: Well, Jack, I'll tell ya, in all my years with the penal institution, and I'll tell ya that's no small number, Mickey and Mallory Knox are without a doubt the most twisted, depraved group of fucks it's ever been my displeasure to lay my eyes on. I mean, those two rat shits are a walkin' reminder of just how fucked up our system really is.
SCAGNETTI (O.S.): Who's the song bird?
MCCLUSKY: Mickey's better half herself. Mallory Knox. This little lady drowned her father in a fish tank.
MCCLUSKY: While the two together burned her mother alive in her bed.
SCAGNETTI (O.S.): Why?
MCCLUSKY: Because they wouldn't give them their blessing for marriage.
SCAGNETTI (O.S.): Ain't love grand.
MCCLUSKY: Ain't love grand. That's a good one.
FEMALE PSYCHIATRIST (V.O.): When pressed about the reason for the murders...patient became hostile...
MALLORY: I don't owe you an explanation! I don't owe you shit! I'm not here for your entertainment. If I don't tell you what you wanna hear, what are you gonna do? Throw me in jail? I'm already there, you stupid pigfucker. You gonna give me some more time? I've already got life. What else you got to threaten me with? Death? I'd like to see you fuckin' try. I haven't met one motherfucker here who's shown me shit!
MCCLUSKY: Here she is...you know her, you love her, you can't live without her...Mallory Knox.
MALLORY: (singing) 99 years is a long, long time. Look at me, I will never be free, I'm a long time woman...
MCCLUSKY (O.S.): Hey, Knox! Somebody out here wants to meet you.
MALLORY: (singing) Been workin' on the road now. Been workin' by the sea. Been workin' in the cane fields. and I wanna be free...
SCAGNETTI: Jesus Christ!
MCCLUSKY: Don't worry about it. She does that all the time.
MCCLUSKY (O.S.): Follow me.
WURLITZER: You duckin' me Dewight?
MCCLUSKY: Hey, Phil, how the hell are ya?
WURLITZER: (to Scagnetti) This son of a bitch is chairman of the prison board, but it's like pullin' teeth to get him down to a prison.
MCCLUSKY: The only reason I'm here now is to set him straight, and I'm on the next flight out. (to Scagnetti) Jack, this is the superintendent of the jail. Phil Wurlitzer. He's the man who's got the power of the pen here.
WURLITZER: Pleased to meet ya, Jack. I read your book. I'm impressed. Good work on Curtis Fox.
SCAGNETTI: Thanks.
MCCLUSKY: From now on, you'll be dealin' with Phil. He can answer all the questions you got about the arrangements. I'm gonna be bidding you good luck and adieu in about twenty minutes. My flight back to Sacramento leaves LAX in a hour.
WURLITZER: And I want you to know, we'll all cry a river when you're gone.
SCAGNETTI: What's the travelling arrangements?
WURLITZER: Well, Mickey and Mallory can't be together. So, we'll put you on one of our prison busses and you'll take Mallory first, then you'll come back for Mickey.
SCAGNETTI: And where do you keep Mickey?
WURLITZER: We got his stinkin' ass in the deepest, darkest cell in the whole place. But it just so happens that right now he's got a special visitor.
SCAGNETTI: Who?
WURLITZER: Wayne Gayle.
SCAGNETTI: (surprised) Wayne Gayle!
WAYNE: (into recorder) Testing one...two...three... testing...one...three...over, over, over, Mickey Knox meeting.
WAYNE: (to himself) Showtime.
WAYNE: Hello Mickey. We've never been introduced, but I'm Wayne Gayle. I don't know if you've ever heard of me or remember me. I was one of the reporters outside the courthouse during your trial---
MICKEY: Everybody knows who you are. You're famous.
WAYNE: I could say the same thing about you. (smiles) I want to thank you very much for seeing me...
WAYNE: I have a television show. It's very popular. Every week we do a profile on a different serial killer. You don't mind if I call you a serial killer, do you?
WAYNE: The episode we did on Mickey and Mallory was one of our most popular ones.
MICKEY: Did you ever do one on Wayne Gacy?
WAYNE: Yes.
MICKEY: Whose ratings were higher?
WAYNE: Yours.
MICKEY: How 'bout Ted Bundy? Ever do one on him?
WAYNE: Yes. Yours got the larger Nielson share.
MICKEY: Good...yuppie piece of shit.
WAYNE: What I'd like to do---
MICKEY: How 'bout Manson?
WAYNE: Manson beat you.
MICKEY: Yeah, it's pretty hard to beat the king.
WAYNE: We've been waiting to do a follow up episode on you for a long time. And that time has definitely come. (pause) I feel it's apparent to anyone who's hip to what's going on that the prison board has thrown the constitution straight out the fuckin' window. You and Mallory may be killers, but you're not insane. You belong in a prison, not in an asylum. The prison board is blatantly railroading you into a hospital for the sole purpose of turning you into vegetables. Now some people are saying, 'So what?' I am not one of those people. If we avert our eyes while they do this to you, we give them permission to do it again whenever they see fit. Today they wipe clean your mind because they feel your actions are dangerous, tomorrow they wipe clean my mind because they feel what I say is dangerous. Where does it all stop?
WAYNE: My problem Mickey, is that you don't exactly inspire empathy. I'm all alone on this. I need your help. I want what the prison board is doing to be the focus of our follow up episode. Now I have interviews with chairman of the prison board Dewight McClusky about this issue. And I'm tellin' ya, Mickey, he looks bad. The two psychologists they used for their psychiatric kangaroo court won't talk to us, which always looks bad. I have an interview with both the judge of your trial, Bert Steinsma, and the psychologist and author, Emil Reinghold, both of which discount the notion that you're insane. You put that all together, and what the state is doing becomes obvious. But the network isn't satisfied. They feel the show needs another element. It needs you. In order to put the show on the air, I need to get an interview with you. You haven't talked to the press since your trial. Now, a few days before you get transferred to an asylum, you grant an interview on television with Wayne Gayle. We're talkin' a media event here. Every son of a bitch out the with a TV set's gonna tune in to see that. We'll make their motives so blatant, we'll shame 'em into dropping the whole thing. At least for a little while, the publicity would keep them from just giving you and Mallory lobotomies. Well, whatta ya say?
MICKEY: Have you talked to Mallory about this?
WAYNE: She won't even see me, Mickey. Now you're not supposed to know anything about what's going on with her, but I'm gonna tell ya somethin'. Since you two've been sentenced, Mallory hasn't spoken one word.
MICKEY: She doesn't talk?
WAYNE: Not to anybody. She sings.
MICKEY: She sings? What does she sing?
WAYNE: Songs. 'He's A Rebel', 'Leader Of The Pack', 'Town Without Pity', that Dusty Springfield song 'I Only Want To Be With You'. That's what I hear anyway. Her behaviour was the main thing the doctors' report used against you. So even if she would see me, which she won't, I couldn't put her on camera anyway. If I ask her, 'Mallory, are you insane?' And she starts singing 'Dead Skunk In The Middle Of The Road', that blows our whole case.
DEPUTY SHERIFF (O.S.): Time, motherfucker!
WAYNE: Wait a minute, Mickey, I need an answer.
WAYNE: (yells after him) Just think about it. But don't think too long.
MICKEY (V.O.): Dearest Mallory. My cell is so cold. At night I get the chills. I pretend you're lying next to me, holding me from behind with your leg draped over mine and your arms wrapped tightly around me. I lie in my cell...
MICKEY (V.O.): ...and imagine kissing you. Not making love, just kissing for hours and hours on end. I remember everything about our time. I remember every joke you ever told.
MICKEY (V.O.): I remember every secret you ever shared. Shared or revealed? I think shared is proper. I remember every single time you laughed.
MICKEY: I remember every meal we ever ate. I remember your cooking. I especially remember your casseroles. I remember watching David Letterman.
MICKEY: I remember driving fast...faster, man, fast behind the wheel of the Coupe de Ville.
MICKEY (V.O.): You, baby, by my side. Your bare feet up on the dash, singing along with the radio 'Needles And Pins', 'He's A Rebel', 'You're My World', 'Ring Of Fire', 'Love Grows Where My Rosemary Goes', 'Groove Me'...
MICKEY (V.O.): And your dancing, my God, your dancing. I lie on my bed and go over every day, every minute of our happiness. Every day take a day of our time and go through it hour by hour. I don't jump ahead either. I take it as it comes, and I live that day again. That way when I get to our first kiss...
MICKEY (V.O.): The killing of your parents, our wedding...They're not just memories. I feel that joy again...
WAYNE: (reading out loud) 'After taking a few days to reflect on your offer, I've come to the conclusion that you are one hundred percent correct. A national TV interview would be very advantageous to both Mallory and I. The only obstacle is they're shipping me out to the funny farm in four days. However, that is your problem and not mine. I feel confident you'll manage. Here's to us making television history. Sincerely, Mickey Knox.'
WAYNE: Am I a God or what?
WAYNE: Drink up! This is a celebration. This is the day we received word we were gonna make television history. We're gonna have the first sit down, in depth interview with the most charismatic serial killer ever, one day before he's being shipped to a mental hospital for the rest of his life. This is one of those golden moments that happens maybe only four times in a lucky journalist's career. This is Wallace with Noriega, this is Elton John confessing his bi-sexuality to the Rolling Stone, this is the tearful reporting of the Hindenberg disaster, this is Truffaut setting the record straight on Hitchcock, this is a Robert Capa photo, this is Woodward and Bernstien meeting Deep Throat in an underground parking lot, this is John Reid reporting 'The Ten Days That Shook The World', this is the hippies' bloody palms at Kent State, the Maysles brothers at Altamont, this is the Nixon/Frost interviews...
ROGER: This is Raymond Burr witnessing the destruction of Tokyo by Godzilla.
SCOTT: What's the schedule, mein fuehre?
WAYNE: We got tonight and tomorrow to get our shit together. The day after that they're shippin' Mallory. That's when we do the Mickey Knox interview, 'cause the next day he goes.
SCOTT: Would the network really not run it without the interview?
WAYNE: Are you kidding? The last thing they expected was Mickey Knox to get up close and personal. They wanted a follow up episode and would've taken anything I had given them. I'm not gonna tell Mickey Knox that. I'm gonna make him think his grey matter depends on it. When I told Woody and the brass about this coup, they practically shit a brick. I'm talkin' an adobe brick. They want to expand the show to a hour, and they want it on immediately.
ROGER: How immediate is immediately?
WAYNE: Next week's episode.
ROGER: We don't got enough footage for a hour follow up.
SCOTT: (pointing at Roger) What he said.
WAYNE: Rape and pillage the first episode, just change the order a bit. Those sons of bitches out there ain't gonna know the difference. All that shit is just filler for the interview anyway. We film a new intro. Show some old footage from the first episode so the get a brief history of Mickey and Mallory. We introduce a new angle... what the prison board is up to. We see some of that new shit, then the rest of the show is the interview. Now what's so fuckin' hard about that? Oh, Julie make a note: I need Woody to get me thirty seconds of the 'Live at Five' broadcast to promote next weeks show. We'll do a feed right from the jail while we're wrapping up with Mickey.
WAYNE: You too Scott, Betacam and a remote, keep it simple.
SCOTT: Betacam with remote and two-way comm link. Got it. (opens eyes) How about the interview...What camera do you want to use?
WAYNE: So Unruly Julie's comin' with me and planning the interview. (points at Roger & Scott) You two go down to the editing bay, take the old footage and the new footage, put it together, and see what we got. Get it into shape so when we finish the interview, we can just stick it in.
SCOTT: When do you want the assembly?
WAYNE: Tomorrow.
WAYNE: At that point I'll ask him if he believes in God. If he says yes, I'll ask him what he thinks God would make of his actions. And is he worried about burning in hell? If he says no, I'll say, 'Well, Mickey, what do you believe in?' And hopefully he'll say something like a live round of ammo, the expression on the face of a man he just split up the middle, Mallory's eyes, sex, drugs, and rock 'n roll. He's bound to say something provocative.
WAYNE: Okay, boys, let's have it.
SCOTT: Well, basically, what we did was put part of the old show on first...
ROGER: But we changed the order around so it wasn't super obvious...
SCOTT: Then we added the new shit to the tail...
ROGER: So we film the interview, and we can just slap it on at the end.
WAYNE: Okay, let's see it.
ROGER (O.S.): Now we got to film a new intro for the follow up episode. But we put the intro for the first episode at the beginning temporarily so you can see it with some scope.
WAYNE (V.O.): I hear ya. Play.
WAYNE: Hello. Welcome to 'American Maniacs'. I'm your host Wayne Gayle. And this is Highway 58.
WAYNE: To some the fastest distance between point A and point B. To others a beautiful stretch to the American landscape. But to Mickey and Mallory Knox, it was a candy land of murder and mayhem.
WAYNE (V.O.): After living a very routine, drab, nothing out-of-the-ordinary-ever- happens kind of life, the sweethearts shocked the entire nation with a cross-country crime and murder spree that lasted only three weeks, but left---
WAYNE (V.O.): ---forty-eight known bodies in its wake. Including---
WAYNE (V.O.): ---Mallory's very own parents.
WAYNE (V.O.): They started their crime wave in Los Angeles.
WAYNE: And they were finally apprehended here at this Circle K in St. Paul, Minnesota.
WAYNE (V.O.): They started off robbing 7/11 type stores and gas stations and later graduated to banks and the big time.
WAYNE: Mickey and Mallory's idea of an armed robbery was a little different than most. It was an assault, actually.
BISHOP: Well. I knew that Mickey and Mallory kill everybody when they're through, except for one clerk. There were a couple of people in the store then, and I was working with Stevo. And I like Stevo, you know? But I was thinking, what could I do to make them pick me to be the clerk that gets to live?
MICKEY: Money! Money! Money! Fast! Fast! Faster! Faster! Faster than that!
WAYNE (V.O.): They'd storm in with shotguns, and kill every customer in the place right off the bat.
WAYNE: Sick, isn't it? (mournful pause) After killing numerous people, the would always leave one clerk alive. One clerk...to give them the money, and tell the tale of---
WAYNE (V.O.): Mickey and Mallory.
WAYNE (V.O.): Patrolman Gerald Nash was just one of the twelve peace officers that Mickey and Mallory murdered during their reign of terror.
WAYNE (V.O.): Gerald and his partner Dale Wrigley were parked at...
WAYNE (V.O.): ...this donut shop, Alfie's Donuts. When---
DALE: This '68 Cadillac Coupe De Ville pulled up about three spaces away. Gerald came walking out with our coffee and--- (begins to tear up) my bear claw. When the driver of the car asked him something, Gerald started giving him what looked like street directions. When he finished, the driver waved him 'thanks,' brought up a shotgun and---
WAYNE: Apparently bored with banditry and murder, the two outlaws proved what renaissance psychopaths they really are. To break up the monotony in between bank jobs, or what have you, they started butchering whole households at random.
WAYNE: Unfortunately, the story didn't end with their capture. It just became more surreal. Their subsequent trial turned into a sick circus...
WAYNE (V.O.): ...As spectators, reporters, law students, tourists, gawkers, the interested, the curious, the devoted, and the demented were drawn to the Los Angeles county courthouse like moths to a flame.
WAYNE: The Mickey and Mallory Knox murder trial was so event filled it made the crime spree that took place before pale by comparison. The first point was the decision of Mickey's to act as his own council. Now this in itself is not unheard of, for instance, Ted Bundy acted as his own council as well. What was unexpected was how well Mickey's performance would be.
WAYNE (V.O.): We spoke with Burt Steinsma, who was the presiding judge during the Knox trial.
JUDGE STEINSMA: Mickey was surprisingly effective. When I was told I was to be the judge of this trial and then I was told Mickey Knox would be handling his own defence, I got a headache that lasted five days. But at first I breathed a sigh of relief. Mickey showed up very prepared, and proved to be an excellent amateur lawyer.
WAYNE (V.O.): However, this opinion isn't shared by the state's prosecutor on this case, Wanda Bisbing.
WAYNE: Judge Steinsma said that Mickey showed up very prepared and proved to be an excellent amateur attorney.
BISBING: Oh, that's rich. Well, considering that Mickey Knox turn his court into a mockery and personally made him look like a fool, I'd say that's very benevolent of Judge Steinsma. As far as Mickey being an excellent amateur lawyer, maybe I'm old fashioned, but when I went to law school, we were taught the object was to win the case, which I did.
WAYNE: The nation caught fire to Mickey and Mallory fever, Mickey and Mallory mania, if you will, as the merits to Mickey's talent as a defence attorney became apparent. Law students from all ends of the country converged on Los Angeles as legal history took a new course. But that was only the lemon next to the pie. And that pie is you, the American people. That pie is the way the strangely charismatic, and make no mistake, they are charismatic, Mickey and Mallory have captured the public's interest, fear, and in some cases, admiration.
WAYNE: What do you think of Mickey and Mallory?
CHUCK: Hot.
JEFF: Hot.
STEVE: Totally hot.
CHUCK: Mickey and Mallory's the best thing to happen to mass murder since Manson.
STEVE: Forty-eight people known. They're way cooler than Manson.
WAYNE: What do you think of Mickey and Mallory?
MORGAN: Well, he's just...I dunno... charismatic.
PAGE: They're so romantic.
INTENSE COP: I'm here to watch the judge give those two shit asses (BLEEP) the stiffest sentence the law allows. I want to see their faces when the state says 'they are the worst scum sucking, degenerate, douche bag, filthy, I don't know what's ever shit (BLEEP) out. (referring to crowd behind him) And these assholes (BLEEP) are making heroes outta sickos. You wanna know who a hero is? You wanna know? I'll tell ya who a Goddamn hero is. Mike Griffin. Mike fuckin' (BLEEP) Griffin is who these misguided assholes (BLEEP) should be revering. You know why Mike Jerome Griffin is a hero? I'll tell ya why. Because he was killed in the line of duty. Do you want to know how he died?
WAYNE: Yes.
INTENSE COP: I'll tell you. Mike Jerome Griffin was killed in the line of duty by those two anti-heroes.
WAYNE: Tell me, Mr. Vossler, how many days of the trial have you attended?
RUSSELL: Ahhh yesss, I've been fortunate enough to attend two days. Law history in the making. I've been a participant.
WAYNE: And you being a Harvard law student, what is your opinion of Mickey Knox's performance?
RUSSELL: Ahhh, Mickey's pistolero savvy in the courtroom trial rivals, dare I say conquers that of master Melvin Belli. He's like a magnificent loose cannon, firing point blank in the prosecutor's face. It is my anticipation---
WAYNE: You're talking about a man and a woman who killed innocent people.
STEVE: Don't get us wrong...
CHUCK: We respect human life an' all.
JEFF: It's a tragedy.
STEVE: But...if I was a serial killer, which I'm not, but if I was, I'd be like Mickey.
MARVIN: They're like that crazy mother in the first Dirty Harry movie. Member that crazy ass mother? They're like him. Mickey and Mallory be doin' some cold-blooded shit. When I hear about some of the shit they be doin' on TV, I say 'Damn, that's fucked (BLEEP) up.'
PAGE: (laughing and blushing) We sit in the courtroom all day and try to catch Mickey's eye.
WAYNE: What do you think of Mickey and Mallory?
SIMON: I admire them.
NORMAN: I do, too.
WAYNE: (confused) But how can you say that?
SIMON: They're mesmerising.
NORMAN: Hypnotizing.
SIMON: Have you seen 'Pumping Iron?'
WAYNE: Yes.
NORMAN: Then you've seen the scene where Arnold Schwartzenegger is talking to Lou Ferigno.
WAYNE: Yes.
SIMON: Through the power of the simple word---
NORMAN: And a snake-eye glare.
SIMON: ---and a snake-eye glare, Arnold was able to totally psyche out any confidence Ferigno had.
NORMAN: He squashed him mentally before physically defeating him.
SIMON: He had the edge. The mind's edge.
NORMAN: Mickey and Mallory have that edge.
SIMON: Only on a much grander scale.
NORMAN: They've hypnotized the nation.
SIMON: Schwartzenegger was the king of the edge before they came along.
WAYNE: You say this and yet...you two are both victims of Mickey and Mallory.
SIMON: Yes.
NORMAN: Yes.
WAYNE: How can you say that you 'admire' them?
NORMAN: It's like this, Wayne. Two people are standing in a dark room waiting for the other to attack. These two people can't see each other, yet they know they're there. Now, they can either stand in the dark room forever waiting until they die of boredom, or one of them can make the first move.
WAYNE: Why can't they just shake hands and be friends?
NORMAN: They can't because neither knows if the other is a deranged senseless killer like the Knoxs. So, you may as well make the first move.
WAYNE: And they made the first move?
NORMAN: Unfortunately, yes.
SIMON: But you see, that's okay, Wayne.
WAYNE: Why?
SIMON: They passed the 'edge' along to us.
WAYNE: How so?
SIMON: By taking away our legs. Now we have to fight harder to get ahead than anyone else you'll find in this gym. Probably the whole city. They gave us the fighting spirit. Before this happened I was content. Now I'm pissed off. Now I'm half a man and I've got to work like the devil to get whole again.
WAYNE: But you'll never be whole again.
SIMON: Never is a very long time, Wayne. A word only the weak use. I'm not a sore loser. Even if I don't have a leg to stand on, I'm going to get up and fight this world until I'm on top again.
NORMAN: That's the Mickey and Mallory way.
SIMON: That's the way of the world.
NORMAN: They're shocking the world into remembering the primal law.
SIMON: Survival of the fittest.
WAYNE: One last question. Usually Mickey and Mallory kill all of their victims. Why did they let you two survive?
NORMAN: They had us tied down during one of their house raids, you've seen the headlines, and they were taking a chainsaw to our legs before they were gonna kill us.
SIMON: Just for fun, I guess.
NORMAN: And then Mallory stops Mickey and says, 'Hey, these are the Brothers Hun.'
SIMON: Mickey stops sawin' on my leg and says, 'Oh my God, I'm your biggest fan!'
NORMAN: Apparently, they've seen all our films.
SIMON: They were especially influenced by 'Conquering Huns of Neptune.'
NORMAN: So, Mallory calls 911 and they took off.
SIMON: They actually apologized.
WAYNE: The couple proved so popular that a motion picture glamorizing their exploits was made...
WAYNE (V.O.): The Movie 'Thrill Killers' proved to be a tremendous box office success, making stars out of the before then unknown---
WAYNE (V.O.): ---actors Jessie Alexander Warwick and Buffy St.McQueen.
ANNOUNCER (V.O.): Meet Mickey Knox!
MOVIE MICKEY: I'm gettin' off this minimum wage train. Break my back for you and throw away my youth for nothing. when I'm thirty, have a big wall drop down in front of me called the future. Realize I've been doin' time in a burger flippin' jail.
MOVIE MICKEY: Listen to me Jimmy-dick, I want cash, lots of it, cars, fast cars! And I want it now! Not later, now! I wanna wail, baby, wail!
ANNOUNCER (V.O.): And his lovely wife Mallory.
MOVIE MALLORY: I need ya, Mickey. I gotta have ya. I'm no good for no one else. when I'm with you, I burn, baby. Burn like blue flame.
ANNOUNCER (V.O.): Together they're the Thrill Killers. The true story of the couple that shocked the world...
ANNOUNCER (V.O.): ...with a bloodlust of violence...
ANNOUNCER (V.O.): ...and unbridled passion.
MOVIE COP: When society catches up with you, I'd hate to be in your boots.
MOVIE MICKEY: Let me telly ya about society and its boots. It uses those boots for steppin' on people like me and her!
WAYNE (V.O.): We talked with Neil Pope, writer and director of 'Thrill Killers' for his take on the Mickey and Mallory phenomena.
NEIL POPE: It is my belief that Mickey and Mallory Knox are a cultural phenomena that could only exist in our sexually repressed society. A flower that could only bloom amidst a grotesque fast food culture. A what I tried to do with 'Thrill Killers' was trace the root of the problem all the way down the vine to the original bad seed. Yet amidst the violence and murder and carnage, you've got the structure of a Wagnerian love story.
MOVIE MALLORY: Mickey, honey, listen to me.
MOVIE MALLORY: I can't go. I'm too fucked up.
MOVIE MICKEY: I'm not saying it's not gonna hurt, but--
MOVIE MALLORY: I can't run with you, Mickey! I really want to. If I could, I would, but I can't. I gotta stay here. But you can still get out of here.
MOVIE MICKEY: No fuckin' way! No fuckin' way!
MOVIE MALLORY: If they stay, they'll catch you, and they don't have to catch you---
MOVIE MICKEY: No fuckin' way!
MOVIE MALLORY: Mickey, you're wasting time!
MOVIE MICKEY: I don't give a damn if a million United States marines, all whistling the halls of Montezuma, are gonna come marchin' down this alley any second. There ain't not fuckin' way in hell I'm leaving you. And that's that!
MOVIE MALLORY: Mickey, my love, if you leave me, they'll catch me and take me to the hospital. If you stay, you'll make 'em kill you. Then it'd be like I killed you. I could bear anything, but I couldn't bear that. So please, please, for me, my handsome husband, run for your life.
MOVIE MICKEY: I can't do it. You're my wife, you're my partner. A fella doesn't run when his partner can't run with him. Mallory, my angel, if I could of left ya, I'd of left ya a long time ago.
MOVIE MALLORY: Well, hell, if you won't leave, give me a gun so I can go out shooting.
MOVIE MICKEY: Sit tight. I'm gonna make it a little tougher for 'em.
MOVIE MICKEY: (to himself) Time to get naked and boogie.
MOVIE MALLORY: Mickey!
MOVIE MICKEY: Yeah baby.
MOVIE MALLORY: You made every day like kindergarten.
MOVIE MICKEY: Mallory!
WAYNE (O.S.): Why did you kill Mallory? Both of them are still alive.
NEIL POPE: It was dramatic license, no doubt. But I felt an operatic love story needed an operatic ending. The two of them kill for each other. They offer the death of their victims to each other like other lovers offer flowers or bon bons. So what more natural, what more organic, what more poetic than Mallory offering her death to Mickey? It's where it's been leading since day one. We worked it in the movie by using a what if they escaped situation. I think it works beautifully. You'd be surprised. People come up to me at the end of the movie in tears.
JESSIE: One thing about Mickey for sure, he's definitely a man who has his moments. It was wild playin' him. It was one of those get-it-out-of-your-system performances.
BUFFY: I didn't play Mallory, the murderer. I didn't play her as a butcher. I played her as a woman in love, who also happens to murder people. I didn't want her to be at arm's length from the audience or myself. If you play her as this wild maniac, the audience never has to deal with her. If you see a decapitation in a movie, you just say 'Oh wow, a neat special effect.' Because you can't relate to a decapitation. It doesn't mean anything to anybody because it's not personal. Decapitations don't fall into most people's realm of life experiences. But if you show somebody in a movie getting a paper cut, the whole audience squirms. Because everybody can relate to a paper cut.
WAYNE (O.S.): Did you meet the real Mallory Knox?
BUFFY: I tried to, but she wouldn't see me. But I read some letters she wrote to Mickey before the murder spree. They helped me out a lot.
WAYNE (O.S): You met Mickey Knox, didn't you?
JESSIE: Yeah, I visited him when he was up in Susanville. He's a little cerebral for my taste, but all in all, we got along.
WAYNE (V.O.): To get a psychiatric view on the strange attraction Mickey and Mallory seems to have, we talked with Doctor Emil Reinghold, noted psychologist and author.
WAYNE: Can you shed some light, Doctor Reinghold, on why the public has taken a pair of sociopaths so close to their bosom?
DR. REINGHOLD: Well, for one, the media has done a tremendous job of turning the husband and wife mass murderers into celebrities. But it's the country's youth who have turned the couple into the ultimate anti-heroes. Basically, the very thing that makes them most lethal is the exact same thing that captures the public's hearts and minds -- Mickey and Mallory's operatic devotion to each other. In a world where people can't seem to make the simplest relationships work and the slightest emotional commitment is considered devastating, Mick and Mallory have a do-or-die romance of a Shakespearean magnitude. To the country's youth, 75 percent of which are coming from broken homes, that's appealing. They have an 'us against the world' posture which always appeals to youth. And they've taken that posture seventeen steps beyond. It's not 'us against the world,' it's 'we're gonna kill the world.' They're exciting. I read their file and I find myself turning the page like it was a paperback. Why do disillusioned youths get into Mickey and Mallory? Why do disillusioned housewives read romance novels? Why are you filming this special? Because you know as well as I do, you say 'tonight at nine Charles Manson speaks,' everybody's going to tune in to hear what he says. Mickey and Mallory have shocked a country numb with violence. They've created a world where only two exist and anybody who inadvertently enters that world is murdered.
WAYNE (V.O.): This attitude from the young towards their ultimate anti-heroes is nation wide. And spreading.
LONDON BOY: You take all the great figures from the States...Elvis, Jack Keroac, Bukowski, James Dean, Jim Morrison, Angela Davis, Jack Nicholson, Jim Thompson, Martin Scorcese...add a bloody pale of nitro and you got Mickey and Mallory. They're like rebels without a cause, except they have a cause. Only nobody knows what it is.
LONDON GIRL: (screaming) Their cause is each utter!
TRANSLATOR (V.O.): Keep the faith, Mickey and Mallory, keep the faith.
TRANSLATOR (V.O.): Mickey and Mallory have a love that's
FRENCH BOY: (in English) They are super cool!
WAYNE: And as to almost give this whole misplaced admiration scenario a cherry on the top, the rock band Redd Kross entered the charts last week at number 13 with their song 'Natural Born Killers, The Saga of Mickey and Mallory.'
WAYNE: The third wicked twist to this story is Grace Mulberry.
WAYNE (V.O.): Of the six teens murdered that night, seventeen year old Grace Mulberry was the lucky one left to tell the tale. And this haunted young lady summoned up the courage to take the stand, tell what she saw that horrible night, and then allow herself to be cross-examined by the man who killed her brother and girlfriends.
FEMALE ORIENTAL REPORTER: Miss Mulberry! How does it feel to be the only survivor of Mickey and Mallory's reign of terror?
FAT MALE REPORTER: Miss Mulberry! Has the experience marked you?
TRANSIENT: Did ya watch your brother get stabbed up?
WAYNE: How do you feel about Mickey cross- examining you?
VOICE (O.S.): Mickey and Mallory!
WAYNE: Mickey, how do you feel about cross- examining Grace Mulberry?
MICKEY: I'm keen with anticipation.
FEMALE ORIENTAL REPORTER: What do you think of this turn out, Mallory?
MALLORY: I ain't never had so much fun.
CUTE REPORTER: Do you have any regrets?
MALLORY: Not a one.
MICKEY: Yeah, I always regretted we never got around to looking up my old history teacher, Miss Bainbridge. Now there's a big bad bitch not good for herself or nobody.
BLACK REPORTER: What's your favorite pastime?
MICKEY: You mean aside from what I'm being tried for?
MICKEY: Oh, I'd say watching TV.
REPORTERS: What's your favorite show?
MICKEY: 'Have Gun Will Travel.'
CUTE REPORTER: Do you have anything to say to your fans?
MICKEY: (looking in CAMERA) You ain't seen nothin' yet.
WAYNE: (to CAMERA) No, apparently we had not seen everything. Grace Mulberry gave her tearful testimony. Then it became Mickey Knox's turn for cross- examination.
BISBING (V.O.): Grace was terrified of Mickey. You have to understand most of their victims were normal people with normal lives that nothing out of the ordinary ever happens to.
BISBING (V.O.): Then out of the blue, they're dealing with the devil incarnate. It was extremely difficult for us to find survivors who would take the stand and testify when they knew Mickey would be cross-examining them.
BISBING (V.O.): Grace was every bit as terrified, every bit as haunted. But she felt her brother Tim and her five girlfriends were counting on her.
BISBING (O.S.): No further questions, your honor.
JUDGE STEINSMA (O.S.): Would you care to cross examine the witness, Mr. Knox?
MICKEY (O.S): As a matter of fact, your honor, I would.
MICKEY: That's one helluva story, Miss Mulberry.
GRACE: Yes it is.
MICKEY: Grace...I hope you don't mind if I call you Grace...
MICKEY: Grace. I'd like to talk to you about your late brother Tim, if you feel up to it.
MICKEY: Grace...I hope you don't mind if I call you Grace...
MALLORY: Naw, she don't mind.
MICKEY: Grace. I'd like to talk to you about your murdered brother Tim, if you feel up to it.
MICKEY (O.S.): Did you get along?
MICKEY: Miss Mulberry?
GRACE: More or less.
MICKEY: More or less...
MICKEY: What do you mean by that?
GRACE: Well, he's my older brother. When we were growing up, there were times we could of very well done without each other. But when it counted, we were close.
MICKEY: I'd like to talk about Tim's martial arts abilities. How long had he been studying?
GRACE: He started when he was in the seventh grade, so that would make it nine years.
MICKEY: When you study the martial arts, they give out belts that come in different colors to signify what level you're at in your training. Am I correct on that point?
GRACE: Yes you are.
MICKEY: What was the color of Tim's belt?
GRACE: The style of fighting that Tim studied didn't believe in belts.
MICKEY: Is that a fact? Well then, Grace, could you tell us what form of martial arts it was that Tim was schooled in?
GRACE: Tim studied several styles, but his favorite was Jeet Kune Do.
MICKEY: Jeet Kune Do...Now I did some research on that form of fighting, and I found out that Jeet Kune Do was a style developed by Bruce Lee. Did you know that?
GRACE: Yes, I did. That's why Tim studied it. Because it was Bruce Lee's fighting style.
MICKEY: Now, while I freely admit total ignorance on the subject, I have heard of Bruce Lee. And I was under the impression that Bruce Lee was one of the, if not the greatest fighter in the history of martial arts.
GRACE: That's what Tim said.
MICKEY: So, I think it would be safe to say that anybody who studied the fighting style that Bruce Lee, arguably the greatest martial artist of all times, developed for nine years, that would be a fella who could defend himself. Would you describe Tim that way, Grace?
GRACE: Yes, I would.
MICKEY: Point of fact, weren't Tim's hands registered as lethal weapons?
GRACE: Yes, they were.
MICKEY: That means his hands are considered a weapon like a gun or a knife. Am I correct on that point?
GRACE: Yes, you are.
MICKEY: Yet, in your testimony just now, you described that Tim...
MICKEY (O.S.): ...kicked me four times in the head.
MICKEY: And his trained martial artists kicks had little to no effect.
MICKEY: Then, after shrugging off four blows to the head like I was Superman, I lifted Tim-nine-years-of-Jeet-Kune-Do-Mulberry off the ground and threw him across the room.
MICKEY: Then I took...
MICKEY: ...this knife and proceeded to tear him limb from limb. And this man, whose hands are lethal weapons---
BISBING: Objection, defence is intimidating the witness with the murder weapon.
JUDGE STEINSMA (O.S.): Sustained. Mr. Knox, put the knife down. MICKEY (cont'd) --had little to no defence.
GRACE: (yelling) I don't know how you did it, but you did it!
JUDGE STEINSMA: Mr. Knox! The knife!
MICKEY: How do you think a human being could possibly be capable of doing something like that?
GRACE: (yelling) I don't know!
MICKEY: Now...I don't believe that Grace. I think you have a definite opinion on how I was able to do those things you described. Now, I'm going to ask you again. And I want you to remember you are under oath.
MICKEY (O.S.): In your opinion, Miss Mulberry, how was I able to murder you brother Tim Mulberry in the manner you described.
GRACE: (softly) You're not human.
GRACE: I thought about it a lot. And the only thing I could figure is that you're not human.
GRACE: You're a vampire, or the devil, or a monster, or cyborg, or something like that. But you're not human.
MICKEY: (softly) Thank you. Grace, there is one other thing...
GRACE: (softly into her lap) What...
MICKEY: You're right.
MALLORY: Show off.
MICKEY: No further questions your honor.
DEPUTY #1: Light's out Prick.
WAYNE (V.O.): After the deadly brewhaha in the courtroom, the judge, honorable Burt Steinsma, passed down a sentence that was to make legal history.
WAYNE (V.O.): We spoke with retired Judge Steinsma at his home in Baltimore, Maryland.
WAYNE: Was there any vengeance on your part with your unique sentence?
JUDGE STEINSMA: Yes, unquestionably. After they did what they did in my court, and judge worth his robe will tell you the same thing. It couldn't help but affect my decision. That's why they have judges. We're supposed to be fair to a fault, but when it's showtime, we have to make a decision. That's why we don't just input all the facts into a computer for the appropriate punishment. I couldn't give them the death penalty. See, California hops back and forth on that issue. Mickey and Mallory went to court when it was out of favor, which is actually good because it leaves more room for imagination. Anybody can give somebody the chair. When you have someone who deserves to die and you can't kill them, you have to be creative. And if the bastards had let it stand, it would of been the perfect sentence. It hit 'em right where they lived. Far more punishing than the death sentence.
WAYNE: Would you please describe for our viewers what your sentence was?
JUDGE STEINSMA: Well, in a rogue's gallery of killers, Mickey and Mallory are very unique. I've seen a lot of killers in my day and they're a very cold lot. They have no more feelings about taking a person's life than squashing a tiny bug. It's all the same to them. Well, Mickey and Mallory were that 'kill 'em to watch their expression change' attitude personified. Except with each other. And, since they lived only for each other, I wanted to attack that, at its very root. So, in a nutshell, my sentence was double life for each without any possibility for parole. That would be fairly standard in their case. The twist I added was that the husband and wife would have no contact or correspondence with each other for the rest of their lives. And they would never receive any word or information about the other. So, basically once the cell door slams shut, Mickey and Mallory will completely disappear from each other's life. They'll never know when the other dies. But alas, the best laid plans of mice and men...
WAYNE (V.O.): The sentence was never to reach that point. Because after only a year, Mickey and Mallory created so much mayhem that it was decided...
WAYNE (V.O.): ...that they were mentally ill and needed to be transferred to a state mental hospital.
WAYNE (V.O.): We talked with Dewight McClusky, chairman of the California State Prison Board, about this curious turn of events in the Mickey and Mallory case.
WAYNE: Why are Mickey and Mallory being moved to an asylum? And who made the decision?
MCCLUSKY: The prison board made the decision. A board of which I belong. We're the who. The why is simple. Mickey and Mallory are mentally ill and need to be under a doctor's care, where hopefully they'll receive the help they need.
WAYNE: Mickey and Mallory were deemed competent in a mental examination before their trial. I'm confused. What's changed?
MCCLUSKY: Well, since that time, they've killed one person during their trail. And since their incarceration, they've killed one psychologist along with several guards and inmates.
WAYNE: When they were found competent before, they had already killed fifty people. Other than the fact they're a disciplinary problem, which frankly shouldn't surprise anyone, I still don't see where this situation is any different then it was before. So, I ask you again, Mr. McClusky, what's changed?
MCCLUSKY: What's changed, Mr. Gayle, is our minds. We felt they were competent a year ago. A year has passed, sir, a year where they were under close observation, day in and day out, and their behaviour has led us to believe we were wrong.
WAYNE: Who is we?
MCCLUSKY: The prison board and the doctors who examined them.
WAYNE: Were any of the doctors who made the first evaluation on the Knoxs mental state asked to re-examine them?
MCCLUSKY: Using the same doctors is not common practice.
WAYNE: I take it by your answer it was a whole new team?
MCCLUSKY: Now that you bring it up, yes. They were different men. I hadn't really thought that much about it. Since many psychiatric opinions are, by a rule, sought out for this kind of situation. What do you think normally happens? The Knoxs are assigned a family psychologist that takes care of them throughout the rest of their lives? The state doesn't work like that.
WAYNE (V.O.): The two psychiatric opinions the board sought were those of Albert Rodriguez...
WAYNE (V.O.): ...and Dr. Felix Vargus. Both of the good doctors, for whatever reason, refused to be interviewed.
DR. REINGHOLD: It's a funny situation actually. If anyone besides Mickey and Mallory give a damn, what the prison board is doing would be considered an outrage. The prison board is basically saying, 'We can't handle these guys.' They've moved 'em around twice since their sentence started. They were a handful everywhere they went. Now the prisons they're at now want them outta there. But no other prison's gonna be stupid enough to take 'em. So the prison board is left scratching their heads wondering what they're gonna do. Well, what they decided to do was to set up a kangaroo medical court that found them crazy. Then they get them transferred to Nystrom Medical Asylum or Lobotomy Bay as it's referred to in the psychiatric circle. Put 'em on a strict dope and electro shock diet, and Mickey and Mallory cease to be a problem to anybody except the orderlies who clean out the bedpans, which if you want to see them get theirs, that's all well and good. But there's something being said here. Forget the immorality for a second. Forget the corruption and the skulduggery involved. What the board is saying is 'we give up.' Mickey and Mallory ran amuck in polite society. They were put in an alternative society and they ran amuck there, too. All the powers that be, can't deal with these two kids. And whatever can't be assimilated has to be terminated.
WAYNE: So, in your opinion Mickey and Mallory are not insane?
DR. REINGHOLD: Insane, no. Psychotic, yes. A menace to living creatures, yes. But to suggest that they're insane gives the impression that they don't know right from wrong. Mickey and Mallory know the difference between right and wrong. They just don't give a damn.
WAYNE: Good work, my brothers. Fan-fuckin'- tastic! I think that interview stuff's too long, we can lose some of that. Keep the girls, keep the long hairs, keep the Hun brothers, keep the black guy, keep the movie shit, and keep the cop at the donut shop. Lose the rest. And cut the interview with the prison board fellow before that. Cut it after I ask, 'I take it by your answer it was a whole new team.' Don't even let him answer. Fuck him. Then cut to me talking about the two chicken shit psychiatrists and straight in Dr. Reinghold laughing.
SCOTT: Okay.
WAYNE: Children, we have a show. (to Scott & Roger) You two get some long well overdue sleep. 'Cause tomorrow, bright and early, county jail and then journey's end...Mickey Knox.
MICKEY: There's this Italian guy, a French guy, and a Polish guy. And they're all talkin' about how they fuck their wives---
MICKEY: ...You know, I'm gonna just rip off your dress and squeeze your titties. Then Little Red Riding Hood whips out her .357, sticks it in the Big Bad Wolf's face and says, 'No you're not. You're gonna eat me...just like the story says.'
MICKEY: (with a lisp) ...Fairy boat! I knew things were good in here, but I didn't know we had our own Navy.
MICKEY: ...So this guy wants to take little Johnny's sister to the drive-in. But the mother says, 'Only if you take little Johnny along---'
MICKEY: ...And the Polish guy says, 'That's nothing. When I get through with my Hanna, I get up, wipe my dick on the curtain, and she hits the roof!'
MICKEY: No...please...thank you...you're too kind...no...please...
WAYNE: (with mouthful of donut) How's it working, Scotty?
SCOTT (O.S.): Perfecto!
ROGER: Where the fuck's the chocolate cream filled? Did anyone get my chocolate cream filled? If you did, it's mine.
ROGER: I pointed at a chocolate cream filled. You saw me do it, didn't you?
WAYNE: You were there. Did you see him put it in a box?
ROGER: At the time, I was too busy explaining to Scott the finer points of film.
SCOTT (O.S.): Yeah, right. You know what he said? He said, Indiana Jones And The Temple Of Doom is Spielberg's best film.
WAYNE: (to Roger) You can't be serious?
ROGER: (preoccupied) I'm as serious about that as I am about going back to the donut store, and dipping that stupid Mexican's head into the batter for forgetting my chocolate cream filled. Gimme that other box.
WAYNE: Huh uh. This dozen is for Mickey.
ROGER: That dumbass probably put my chocolate cream filled in there by mistake.
WAYNE: Roger, no.
ROGER: What's the big deal? Take out my chocolate cream filled, put one of these roasted coconut---
WAYNE: Roger, do you understand what the word 'no' means? It's important we establish a rapport. Something as simple as a dozen donuts can mean the world to somebody who hasn't had a donut in a year.
ROGER: So you're giving a man who butchers whole families, little babies included, my chocolate cream filled?
WAYNE: Okay, guys, we're here. L.A. County Jail. Julie, just park in the front.
ROGER: Wayne---
WAYNE: Roger, I'm starting to get pissed. Just drop this fuckin' donut shit, and gather your gear.
WAYNE: (aside to Scott) Here's the welcome wagon.
WURLITZER: Hello, Mr. Gayle. I'm Phil Wurlitzer. We talked on the phone. It's a pleasure to meet you.
WAYNE: Same here. Let me introduce my crew. Scott...Roger...and Unruly Julie ...this is...I'm sorry. What's your title again?
WURLITZER: I'm the superintendent here at L.A. County Jail. Me and my deputies are who you'll be working with while you're here.
WAYNE: That sounds great. Look, I don't want any of this to intimidate you. This is not going to be a big deal. This is going to be very easy. (to his crew) I need to talk with Mr. Wurlitzer. You guys get your equipment ready, power up the van and confirm a transmission code for the remote. Julie come with me.
WAYNE: The main thing I need is a big room, shut off from the population, so we can get some privacy...with a few electrical outlets.
WURLITZER: (to two Deputies) This is just for an interview, I was on the set of 'Dukes of Hazzard' once. It was a much bigger deal than this. They had a crew of maybe seventy-five people.
WAYNE: We're gonna be talking over here. But I want enough freedom so if I wanna get up and move around, we can.
WAYNE: Take him and walk him over this way. (pretending Scott's Mickey) So, Mickey, killing Mallory's parents, what the hell was that all about? (pauses--to Scott) Then maybe take him to the window.
WAYNE: (pretending Scott's Mickey) So, Mickey, if you were let outta jail today, what's the first thing you'd do? (pause--to Scott) Little shit like that. I don't wanna have to feel I gotta stay in the chairs. We're after a cinema verite, anything can happen, truth twenty-four times a second kindda feel.
WURLITZER: And when it's lunch time, they don't just go to McDonalds. They got cooks there servin' great food. Swedish meatballs...
WURLITZER: How's everything coming, Mr. Gayle?
WAYNE: Everything's coming along just fine. Phil, I wanted to know if I could have a small word with you.
WURLITZER: By all means.
WAYNE: You met the kids I have working for me? Great bunch, aren't they?
WURLITZER: Oh yes, indeed. Top flight.
WAYNE: Scott, genius cameraman, Roger, magician with sound. Unruly Julie, I could sooner do without my arm than Unruly Julie.
WURLITZER: Is that her real name?
WAYNE: Just a little nickname. Yep, they're my kids and they're all I need. After working together these past coupla years, we're like well-oiled machinery. No, more like a Formula race car. No, scratch that one, too. What we're really like is a Swiss watch. Small, intricate, compact...it shouldn't work as well as it does, but it does. Because of the craftsmanship, the expertise, and the artist's loving hand.
WURLITZER: I see.
WAYNE: Now, Phil, I don't know if you've ever been on a set before---
WURLITZER: (proudly) Ya know, I was.
WAYNE: (acting surprised) Really?
WURLITZER: I was on the 'Dukes of Hazzard' set about eight years ago.
WAYNE: (still acting surprised) Well...small world. Well, then, you know firsthand how Hollywood does things. Lights all over the place, generators, a hundred and fifty crew members---
WURLITZER: Oh, that 'Dukes of Hazzard' show, there was probably ninety-five people there, maybe more.
WAYNE: See what I mean? It's a funny business, isn't it?
WURLITZER: It sure is.
WAYNE: They got a asshole over here. (pointing to his left) A asshole sitting down reading a magazine over there. (points to his right) A asshole perched up there. (points straight up) Assholes everywhere. Hey, maybe if we were doin' that kiss, kiss, bang, bang stuff we'd need all those assholes, too. What we're about is intimacy. We're about two people having a conversation. Say I was interviewing you. All I want you to worry about is what I ask you. I want a trust to develop. If you're thinking about all this... (indicates the hustle and bustle of a set) ...you're not going to relax, a trust won't develop, we'll be talking a each other instead of to each other, there will be no chance for intimacy.
WAYNE: That's why my crew is only three...an invisible three. (switching gears) Which brings me to what I wanted to talk to you about. I have to get Mickey Knox to relax...Mickey Knox to share what he's never shared before... Mickey Knox to open doors which 'till today have been closed. Well, how can we expect him to do that when we got Los Angeles County Sheriffs up the walls.
WURLITZER: (snorts) Well, just what the hell do you expect me to do?
WAYNE: Lose 'em.
WURLITZER: Mr. Gayle, do you have the slightest idea how dangerous Knox is?
WAYNE: Mr. Wurlitzer, I assure you, I am very familiar with Mickey Knox's career.
WURLITZER: Since he and his wife have been in custody, they've killed---
WAYNE: Don't recite the fact to me. I'm sure I know 'em better than you do.
WURLITZER: Well, let me let you in on one more fact you obviously don't know. If I were to take my men away, Mickey Knox would snap your neck like a twig.
WAYNE: One...I can take care of myself. I grew up in a tough neighbourhood, and I've handled some pretty rough customers in my day. Mickey Knox doesn't scare me. Two...I'm a journalist, and I'm prepared to take that risk. Three...it ain't gonna happen. Believe me when I tell you, it is in Mickey Knox's own best interest to play this game according to Hoyle. (pause) Wait a minute. We've gotten into a advisory relationship here, which is not what I want. (pause) But seriously, Phil, look at this.
WAYNE: (counting) We got one...two...three...four ...five...six...seven...eight. I mean Jesus Christ, Phil, that's too much. Let's lose some of these guys.
WURLITZER: Wayne, if it was anybody else---
WAYNE: Phil, I'm just scared he's gonna clam up on me with all these sheriffs all over the place. They hate him. He hates them. What kinda intimacy am I gonna create with all this hate in the air. Even you and I feel it.
WURLITZER: What are we talking about?
WAYNE: Two guys?
WURLITZER: Okay. I'll take two guys off.
WAYNE: No, no, no, no, no, no, I mean only two guys.
WURLITZER: I can't do that. Five guys.
WAYNE: Three.
WURLITZER: I'll cut it in half. Four guys, but that's it.
DEPUTY #1: On your feet! Turn your face to the wall.
MICKEY: Now what you're supposed to say is: 'Five minutes, Mr. Knox.'
SCAGNETTI (O.S.): Rise and shine, Mallory!
SCAGNETTI: Beautiful day for a drive, isn't it?
SCAGNETTI: It's a long trip to Bakersfield. Long and hot. Ever been to Bakersfield?
SCAGNETTI: See, I've been there twice. And I'm not lookin' forward to goin' back. But I'm in and out. You, on the other hand, sweetheart, are gonna spend the rest of your life there. Now that's what I call cruel and inhuman punishment.
SCAGNETTI: Course you're not gonna give a shit. 'Cause when the good doctor's get through givin' you the zap... (he puts his finger next to his temple, pantomimes being electrocuted) ...You won't know where the hell you are. They'll just put you on a window sill, and water you every other day.
WAYNE: (to his crew) And when he gets here, its no dick'n around time. Make him up, clip a mike on him, then leave him alone. I don't want you talking to him. I don't want you getting in his face. I want you hiding behind your gear. You are invisible.
WAYNE: (to his crew) Okay, break.
WURLITZER: Okay, boys, lets start undoing him.
MICKEY: (to Wayne) Okay now, before we get started here, there's a few things we have to get clear about.
WAYNE: All right, Mickey.
MICKEY: Let's discuss it when I'm unbound.
BINGHAM: Turn around and face the wall!
SCAGNETTI: Wait outside for a second, fellas.
BINGHAM: We're not supposed---
SCAGNETTI: Don't worry about it.
SCAGNETTI: Want a smoke?
SCAGNETTI: C'mon, I already lit one for you. I know you smoke.
SCAGNETTI: I was reading the file on you. You know what it said during your trial, whenever they put you on the stand, no matter what they asked, your answer was always the same...'I love Mickey.' It also says that when they gave you a polygraph, 'I love Mickey' was the only thing you said that registered as the truth.
SCAGNETTI: Who are you supposed to be? Squeaky Fromme? Is that it? Is Mickey your Charles Manson? Is Mickey Jesus? Is that the attraction? Or does he just got a big dick?
SCAGNETTI: That's it, isn't it? Mickey's got a big donkey dick.
SCAGNETTI: Can you remember the last time you fucked? Huh? What I want you to do is close your eyes and remember... remember the last time ol' Mickey gave you the high hard one. Are ya thinkin' about it? Good. Remember it. Don't ever forget it cause it ain't never gonna happen again. Cause when they get through with all that electroshock shit they got lined up for you two, Mick's dick ain't gonna be worth shit.
SCAGNETTI: Look. You're gonna sit here for a couple hours while I finish up the arrangements. The reason they picked me to be your chaperone is they know I won't hesitate to put a bullet in you.
SCAGNETTI: So, during our journey, if any wild hairs spring up on your ass, you'd better slap a muzzle on 'em! Fuck with me, bitch, even a little bit, you're gonna get accidentally shot! Comprehende?
SCAGNETTI: She broke my fucking nose! That bitch broke my nose!
SCAGNETTI: (blood down his face) She broke my nose.
WASHINGTON: I'll fix it.
SCAGNETTI: Hold her, boys.
SCAGNETTI: I want this filled before we leave.
MICKEY: (to Unruly Julie) How come you never talk?
ROGER: She was born without a tongue.
MICKEY: (repulsed) Oh my God! (to Unruly Julie) Sorry.
WAYNE: So we got a deal. Four deputies---
WURLITZER: And me.
WAYNE: Why don't we make it three deputies and you?
WURLITZER: Why don't I have Mickey thrown back into his cell and we can forget the whole thing?
WAYNE: Chill out, Phill. Four deputies and you, I can live with that. We're about ready to go here, so let's get rid of these other assholes.
WURLITZER: Don't call my men assholes.
WAYNE: I didn't mean they were assholes. I mean if they're leaving, get 'em outta here.
WAYNE: Okay, Scotty, we're stuck with four of these assholes. Now I want to create the illusion that this is just Mickey and I chewin' the fat all by ourselves. So make sure you don't film these assholes. I don't want to see 'em on film ever. Oh, and 'Live at Five' slated our spot as human interest which means we'll go live at just after five-thirty.
WURLITZER: This asshole's tryin' to tell me what I'm gonna do in my jail. Fuck him! This nanderfuck doesn't know what he's dealin' with here, but we do. And if shit happens, he ain't gonna be responsible, we are. So keep your shotguns out, your fingers on the triggers, and be ready to fire at a moment's notice.
ROGER: Say something.
MICKEY: (mouthful of donut) What?
ROGER: Anything.
MICKEY: (talking in rhyme) I stand amid the roar Of a surf tormented shore, As I hold within my hand Grains of the golden sand-- How few! yet how they creep Through my fingers to the deep, While I weep--while I weep! O God! can I not save One from the pitiless wave? Is all that we see or seem But a dream within a dream?
MICKEY: (mouthful of donut) How was that?
ROGER: Ah...fine. Let me make an adjustment here, and we'll be ready to rock 'n roll. Oh...uh, the dumbass at the donut place put a chocolate cream filled I asked for in your box.
MICKEY: There's a chocolate cream filled in there?
ROGER: Yeah. Ya see, I ordered that special.
MICKEY: Tough titty, it's mine now.
ROGER: Look, I'll trade you.
WAYNE: Roger, enough with the fucking donuts! What did I tell you. Stop bothering Mickey, and get behind your nagra.
ROGER: (to himself) Fine. Roger, what the hell are you doing? You're bothering the serial killer.
WAYNE: Sorry about that.
MICKEY: Don't worry about it.
WAYNE: We're about ready to go here. Are you ready?
MICKEY: Let's do it.
WAYNE (O.S.): Okay people! Let's start to settle down here.
WAYNE (O.S.): Are you comfortable?
WAYNE (O.S.): Roger?
ROGER (O.S.): Rockin'!
WAYNE (O.S.): Scotty?
SCOTT (O.S.): Rollin'...and speed!
WAYNE (O.S.): Slate it.
WAYNE: So, Mickey, tell us what you do for fun.
MICKEY: Aside from the obvious?
WAYNE: (not amused) Yes. Aside from the obvious.
MICKEY: Okay, let me see now. What do I do for fun? (to people O.S.) Does anybody got a smoke? You guys are drivin' me crazy with your cigarettes. (to camera) Sorry out there in TV land. I'm just sittin' here lookin'' at these deputies smokin' up a storm, and it's really doin' it to me.
MICKEY: Much obliged. What do I do for fun? Do you want to know what I do for fun or what I did for fun?
WAYNE: What? Oh, aaahhh, what you did for fun for starters.
MICKEY: What I did for fun for starters. (thinking) Well, something I used to do...always was a lot of fun... (pause) No, scratch that. Let me think of something else. In fact, why don't we come back to that question. Ask me something else.
WAYNE: Do you miss Mallory?
MICKEY: Of course, I miss Mallory. She's my wife. I haven't seen her in a long time. What a stupid question.
WAYNE: Then was it worth it?
MICKEY: Was what worth it?
WAYNE: Was massacring all those people worth being separated from your wife for the rest of your life?
MICKEY: Do you think up these questions or the girl with no tongue?
WAYNE: No, Mickey, I can't let you get away with that shit. Answer the question. Was it worth it? You haven't seen, heard, or smelled Mallory in a year. Was it worth it?
MICKEY: Was an instant of purity worth a lifetime lie? Yeah, it was.
WAYNE: Excuse me, did you say an instant of purity? What was the instant of purity? The bodies you left behind on your bloody trail?
MICKEY: That's only part of it. I mean, it's a big, big, big part. But it's only the chorus, it's not the whole song.
WAYNE: (passionately) Please explain to me, Mickey, where's the purity that you couldn't live without in five year old Danny Millhouse's blown off head? Where's the purity in forty-eight people who are no longer on this planet because they met you and Mallory? What's so fucking pure about that?
MICKEY: Where the purity comes into play---
SCOTT (V.O.): Camera jam! I'm sorry Wayne. God.
WAYNE (V.O.): Fucking dammit! Mickey hold onto that thought. Reload, quick!
MALLORY: (singing) Love is a hurtin' thang, and it leaves a fiery sting.
SCOTT (V.O.): Okay. Okay, we're up again.
WAYNE (V.O.): Roll it. Save the slate.
WAYNE: You just said an instant of purity was preferrable to a lifetime lie. I don't understand. What's so pure about forty-eight dead bodies?
MICKEY: You'll never understand. Me and you, Wayne, we're not even the same species. I used to be you...then I evolved. From where you're standing, you're a man. From where I'm standing, you're a ape. I'm here...I'm right here... and you...you're somewhere else, man. You say why? I say why not?
WAYNE: Tell me about the purity.
MICKEY: (laughing) It's not that easy, Wayne. Donuts and a smoke only get you so far. You're gonna have to do your job.
WAYNE: (laughs) Okay...okay...I'll buy that. We'll move on and come back later.
MICKEY: I'm sure we will.
WAYNE: Describe Mallory.
MICKEY: Describe Mallory? Okay. She's pretty, she's got blonde hair, two eyes, two feet, two hands, ten fingers...
WAYNE: Don't play dumb with me, Mickey. You know what I mean. Describe Mallory. (points at his head) What's up here? (points at his heart) What's in here?
MICKEY: That's indescribable.
WAYNE: Well, riddle me this, Batman. How do you feel about the fact that you're never gonna see Mallory again?
MICKEY: (smiles) Says who?
WAYNE: Says the United States of America.
MICKEY: (laughs) When have they ever been right?
MICKEY: Hey, just like Soupy Sales.
MICKEY: ...one night I was asleep, and a noise wakes me up. I thought, 'Oh shit, somebody's broken in.' I didn't own a gun, so I go into the living room with a fucking umbrella. Okay, it turned out to be nothing. God made the noise. Who knows?
SCAGNETTI: (whispers) How's it goin'?
WURLITZER: (whispers) Shhhh! I wanna hear this.
WURLITZER: What the hell happened to you?
SCAGNETTI: You should see the other bitch. What time you got?
WURLITZER: Two-thirty. Shhh...
MICKEY: But I came to the direction I need a gun. Do, the next day I started off early for work, and I'm gonna stop by a gun shop and pick up a little home protection. I walked into the place and had never seen so many guns in all my life. So, I'm lookin' around, the this really nice sales guy comes up to me. His name was Warren. I'll never forget his name. He was really nice. Anyway, Warren showed me all these different models of guns. Magnums, automatics, pistols, Walters. And I ask to see a shotgun. He brings me a Mossberg pump action shotgun. As soon as I held that baby in my hands, I knew what I was gonna do. It felt so good. It felt like it was a part of me. They had a mirror in the store. I looked at myself holding it, and looked so fuckin' good, I immediately bought it. Bought a bunch of boxes of ammo. Turned my car around, drove to Mallory's house, we took care of Mallory's parents, packed up the car, and we were off.
MICKEY: Everybody thought I'd gone crazy. The cops, my mom, everybody. But you see, they all missed the point of the story. I wasn't crazy. But when I was holding the shotgun, it all became clear. I realized for the first time my one true calling in life. I'm a natural born killer.
WAYNE: Okay, let's cut it.
WAYNE: (to Scott) Did ya get that?
SCOTT: It's gonna be beautiful.
WAYNE: Super cool. (to Mickey) This is great stuff. How ya doin'?
MICKEY: I could go for a Coke.
WAYNE: (yelling) Could I get a Coke for Mickey?
WURLITZER: I'm not running out and getting that piece of shit a Coke.
WAYNE: Fine. (to Unruly Julie) Julie, why don't you make a food run? (to the room) What's around here?
DEPUTY SHERIFF: There's an In and Out Burgers about a block away on Olive. It's walking distance.
WAYNE: Okay, Julie, take everybody's order. I'll have a double double with cheese, french fries, and a large Coke.
WURLITZER: Are you all set?
SCAGNETTI: Yeah. Bus is all gassed up and ready to roll.
WURLITZER: I assigned you Bingham and Washington to go along.
SCAGNETTI: Yeah, we met. They're good men.
WURLITZER: They're real Goddamn good. They'll be there for when ya need 'em. Where are they?
SCAGNETTI: Waitin' in the lounge.
WURLITZER: How 'bout Mallory?
SCAGNETTI: Coolin' her jets in a holding cell.
SCAGNETTI: Nothing for me. I'm leavin'.
WURLITZER: Me, neither. I don't eat meat.
DEPUTY SHERIFF: Capt'n!
WURLITZER: Yeah?
DEPUTY SHERIFF: They need you. Emergency!
WURLITZER: (into phone) Talk to me. (pause) Where? (pause) For the love of Pete...okay...okay ...okay. Mobilize the men. I'm on my way.
WURLITZER (O.S.): I'll be a son of a bitch. There's a riot going on in the laundry room.
DEPUTY SHERIFF (O.S.): Is it serious?
WURLITZER (O.S.): It sure as hell is. They got guns, hostages, and explosives.
WURLITZER (O.S.): Jack, could you stay up here for a while?
SCAGNETTI (O.S.): Yeah, sure.
WURLITZER (O.S.): I'm taking one of these men. Yates, come with me.
WAYNE (O.S.): Could we go with you and film it?
WURLITZER (O.S.): Stay up here and finish your interview, I've got to see what the hell's going on down there before I can take responsibility for you to film there.
MICKEY: I'll have a four by four. That's four patty burgers. Now they don't have that on the menu, but if you order a four by four, they'll know what you're talking about. A large Coke and two orders of fries.
MICKEY: You guys wanna hear a joke I heard?
WAYNE (O.S.): Sure.
MICKEY: Now, I'm no comedian, but it's pretty funny. It's a Little Johnny joke. Now in the joke, Little Johnny can't talk. And Little Johnny's teenage sister asks her mother if she can go out on a date.
MICKEY: The mother asks, 'Where's he taking you?' The sister says, 'The drive-in movie.' The mother tells her she can only go if she takes Little Johnny with her. She says okay. They go to the drive-in, they come back. The mother gets Little Johnny and says, 'Okay, what happened? Where did ya go?'
MICKEY: Mother says, 'The drive-in movie. What did they do?'
MICKEY: 'They kissed. What else?'
MICKEY: 'He felt her up? What else?'
MICKEY: (dumbfounded) 'They took off their clothes? What else?'
MICKEY: 'They did it? What were you doing?'
MICKEY: Looks like we got a Mexican standoff.
SCAGNETTI: Slide the shotgun over here, put your hands behind your head, put your forehead on the floor.
MICKEY: Or what? You'll wound me? I can blow you in half and you know it.
SCAGNETTI: I've never wounded anything in my life. I got you locked right between the eyes.
MICKEY: If you don't drop that toy, I'm blowin' you in half on three. So, if you got me locked, take the shot. One...
MICKEY (O.S.): Two...
MICKEY: Three!
SCAGNETTI: Hold it! Don't shoot!
MICKEY: Open the chamber. Empty the shells.
MICKEY: Toss it.
MICKEY: Now put your hands behind your head.
MICKEY: Did you ever see 'Eldorado?'
SCAGNETTI: What?
MICKEY: You guys stay on your bellies.
ROGER: Yes, sir.
MICKEY: I am the most dangerous man in the world.
MICKEY: (points at Scagnetti) You're the law. (points at himself) I'm the law breaker.
MICKEY: Donut, get your camera. See if it's broke.
WAYNE: Let me check on Scott. He's hurt bad.
MICKEY: Scott's dead. And unless you wanna play follow the leader, shut up and do as you're told.
MICKEY: How is it?
ROGER: Not good.
MICKEY: Do you have a back up.
ROGER: It's video.
MICKEY: Even better. Wayne call your station, tell 'em we're going live a little early today. Make it happen!
WURLITZER: I want two men stationed in that tier, and I want men with rifles all along the walkway.
PITNEY (O.S.): Capt'n!
PITNEY (O.S.): Here's the layout of the laundry room.
WURLITZER: Where do the air ducts lead?
PITNEY (O.S.): Here.
SMITHY (O.S.): Problem is they'll hear somebody approaching that way.
PITNEY (O.S.): We turned off the power when they took over the room.
WURLITZER: We turn it back on. The machines go back on supplying us with the cover noise we need. Smithy, do it.
SMITHY (O.S.): Right away, Capt'n.
WURLITZER: Jonesy, are the sharpshooters in place?
JONESY (O.S.): Yes.
WURLITZER: You sure?
JONESY (O.S.): I think--
WURLITZER: Never say you think when you know, or you know when you think.
WURLITZER: (into walkie talkie) Bergman, you in place?
BERGMAN (O.S.): (from walkie talkie) Sure am, Capt'n. Nothin' clean yet.
WURLITZER: (into walkie talkie) Pass this to your team...the second they get a lock on a blue, they're to take the shot. Do you understand?
BERGMAN (O.S.): (from walkie talkie) That's a big ten-four, Capt'n.
WURLITZER: What do you think, Pitney? How much Explosives do you think that they really have in there?
PITNEY (O.S.): It's hard to say Capt'n.
WURLITZER: Take a wild stab!
PITNEY (O.S.): I'll say enough to destroy this wing.
WURLITZER: The entire wing?
PITNEY (O.S.): That's my opinion.
WURLITZER: Jesus...
TV ANNOUNCER (V.O.): We interrupt this program to bring you a Special Report.
CHAVEZ: Good afternoon, I'm Tony Chavez and this is a KKTV Special Report. At this moment we are receiving preliminary reports of a hostage-- (fingering earphone) I...I'm sorry. I'm being told that we're now taking you live to L.A. County Jail where Wayne Gayle is standing by.
WAYNE: This is Wayne Gayle reporting live from the Los Angeles County Jail, where you can tell from the bloody carnage behind me that the final chapter in the book called Mickey and Mallory has not yet been written.
MICKEY: Thank you, Wayne, but our little movie just underwent a title change. It's now called 'The Escape of Mickey and Mallory.' Starring me, you, Mallory, and special guest accomplice, Jack- fucked-up-fingers-Scagnetti. (into CAMERA) Okay, Donut, move in for a close up. I want this for prosperity.
MICKEY (O.S.): Okay, buddy boy, where ya keepin' Mallory? I know she's still here, and I know you know where. So, start talking or my first work as a director will be your death scene.
SCAGNETTI: (slightly out of it) She's in the holding cell, on this floor.
MICKEY (O.S.): You're taking us to that holding cell now. (into CAMERA) All right, Cut!
CHAVEZ: Ladies and gentlemen, in case you have just tuned in, it appears that a hostage situation involving Mickey Knox is developing presently at the Los Angeles County Jail. We have seen that he is armed and apparently there has been some loss of life. We will try to re-establish contact with Wayne Gayle and bring you more on this late breaking story. Please stay tuned.
TV ANNOUNCER (V.O.): This has been a KKTV Special Report.
MICKEY: Okay, Jack, this is what we're doing. Stand behind me, put your back against mine and extend your arms behind you.
MICKEY: Now if I feel your back move away from mine, you're gonna be ripped apart. Got it?
SCAGNETTI: Yeah.
MICKEY: Okay, Wayne, step forward.
MICKEY: Keep comin'. Put your solar plexus against the barrel.
MICKEY: Grab his arms.
MICKEY: Either one of you two move, it's gonna be shotgun city. You understand?
WAYNE & SCAGNETTI: Yes.
MICKEY: You ready, Donut?
ROGER: Ready.
MICKEY: Wagons, hooaaa!
MALLORY: (singing) Whataleeatcha, whataleeatcha dodaleedo, dodaleedo. Whataleeatcha, whataleeatcha dodaleedo, dodaleedo. Simplest thing there isn't much to it. All ya gotta do is dodaleedo it. I like the rest, but the best part I like is Whataleeatcha, whataleeatcha dodaleedo, dodaleedo, do quack, quack.
MICKEY: (to Mallory) Honey, I'm home.
MALLORY: (in between kisses) It's taken you so long to come to me.
BAILEY (O.S.): Here's the list of the rioters.
WURLITZER: Wait a minute, Bailey. Where's the list of the hostages?
BAILEY (O.S.): I'm working on it Capt'n.
WURLITZER: Keep on it, son.
WURLITZER: (reading the names) Alvarado, Issacs, Julian, Martinez, Newendyke, Olvera, Pool, Ramos, Schmidt, Spivey, Walsh, Westerguard...
NAPALATONI (O.S.): Capt'n.
WURLITZER: What is it Napalatoni?
NAPALATONI (O.S.): Mickey Knox is loose.
WURLITZER: What do you mean he's loose?
NAPALATONI (O.S.): He's armed, he's killed three deputies and one of Wayne Gayle's guys. At the moment, he's hold up with Mallory Knox in her holding cell with Wayne Gayle, another TV guy, that cop fella, and two other deputies as hostages. And Capt'n, they have one of them news cameras goin' live to KKTV. They won't stop playin' it. What do you want us to do?
MICKEY: Okay, we're going out that door, and we're gonna march down the hall and right out of the building. (to Wayne) Donut said something about a news van.
WAYNE: Yeah, we have a van.
MICKEY: Where's it parked?
WAYNE: Out front.
MICKEY: Let me have the keys.
WAYNE: Mickey, can I talk to you alone?
MICKEY: No.
WAYNE: This is crazy. You can't escape like this.
MICKEY: Probably not, but we're gonna give it the old college try.
WAYNE: We'll all be killed.
MALLORY: Exciting, isn't it?
MICKEY: Now, when we get out there, you do what we say or it's curtains. If we say move, you move. If we say left, you move left. If we say right, you move right. If we say mole, you dig a hole. Got it?
MALLORY: Are we in a big hurry?
MICKEY: You got something you want to do?
MALLORY: Yeah.
MICKEY: By all means, knock yourself out.
MALLORY: Thanks. Roll 'em, Donut.
MALLORY: You! Stand up!
MALLORY: You probably thought it was pretty funny, didn't ya?
MALLORY: Can you remember the last time you fucked with me? Close your eyes and remember...Are ya thinking about it? Good.
DUNCAN (O.S.): Oh God! Oh God! Ohhhh...
MICKEY: We're sending out a hostage. Don't touch him!
MALLORY: Mickey!
MICKEY: Don't stop!
ROGER (O.S.): Man, oh, man...this is better than Vietnam!
DUNCAN: Please don't kill me! Don't kill me...
MICKEY (O.S.): Get the camera! Get the fucking camera!
MICKEY: (to Mallory) This way.
MICKEY: (to Duncan) Where does this lead?
MICKEY: Where!?!
DUNCAN: Th-- the ground floor.
MALLORY: Is that the front door?
MICKEY: Let's go.
MALLORY: Back off or I'll blast him! Back off or I'll blast him! Back off or I'll blast him!
WAYNE: Don't shoot. I beg you, don't shoot! Please, please, please...
WURLITZER: Now Mickey, Mallory, just let me say---
MALLORY: Shut up! Don't talk, I don't wanna hear it!
WURLITZER: You have to know---
MALLORY: I said shut up...
MALLORY: ...and I mean shut up!
MICKEY: Think...think...think...
WURLITZER (O.S.): Give up! There's no other way out!
MALLORY: Look, lover boy, we're not getting outta here. So I say the hell with going back to our cells. Let's do a Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Run down these stairs shootin', go out in a hail of bullets, but take as many of those motherfuckers with us as possible.
MICKEY: We'll do that when all else fails.
MALLORY: Hasn't it?
MICKEY: We still got a few tricks up our sleeves.
MICKEY: You married?
DUNCAN: Oh, I don't wanna die...
MICKEY: Are you married? Do you have kids?
MICKEY: Good. People, we're goin' all the way to the front door. Now, the only way we're gonna get there is if they don't want to kill you two more than they want to kill us.
MICKEY (V.O.): Right now I find that highly unlikely. So, let's help 'em out, shall we?
MICKEY: Now, say I tell those guys down there if they shoot or make a move, I'm killin' Wayne Gayle. And they shoot or make a move anyway. Now say by some freak accident, you didn't die, you live though it. What would you do?
WAYNE: What would I do? Me and my network would sue the entire Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department for flagrantly disregarding my safety. I'd go straight to my buddy, the mayor, and make sure everyone of those son of a bitches down there ends up on the unemployment line. In fact, I'd sue every man down there personally. I would make it my life's ambition to bring the LA County Jail to its knees. I would do expose after expose on the brutality, and the conditions, and the inhumanity that exists here.
MICKEY: That's what I thought. You tell them that. When we go down those stairs, I want you to scream what you just told me. 'My name is Wayne Gayle! I am the star of American Maniacs watched every week by'-- how many people?
WAYNE: On average forty million.
MICKEY: 'Every week by forty million people. I am a respected journalist.' Have you won any awards?
WAYNE: Are you kidding? The Golden Globe, The Edward R. Murrow award...
MICKEY: 'Respected journalist'-- On your knees...
MICKEY: (continues) ...'Winner of the Golden Globe and the Edward R. Murrow award among others.' Tell 'em the name of your personal lawyer, his firm, his address, and phone number. Tell 'em about the mayor and the unemployment lines. You getting the idea?
WAYNE: Yes.
MICKEY: Say it. Scream it. All the way out the front door and into your van. And if you stop screaming, I swear to God I'll blow your head off.
WAYNE: Got it.
MICKEY: You! What's your name?
MALLORY: Duncan...Homolka?
MICKEY (O.S.): Start.
WAYNE: (yelling) My name is Wayne Gayle! I am the star of 'American Maniacs', watched by forty million people every week! I am a respected journalist, winners of the Golden Globe, the Edward R. Murrows Award among others! If anybody puts me in danger, my network will sue The Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department. My estate will sue every officer personally who fires. The network's law firm is Rowlands, Davis and Sinclair...
MALLORY: (yelling) Make a path!
WURLITZER: How far do you think your gonna get?
MICKEY: Right out the front door.
WURLITZER: That'll never happen.
MICKEY: It is happening.
MALLORY: Don't stop!
WURLITZER: (to Mickey) I will personally hunt you down, blow the head off your fucking-whore-wife, and plant your sick ass in the ground all by myself.
MICKEY: (calmly) Another day perhaps, but not today.
WAYNE: This is Wayne Gayle. I'm wounded and my crew, Roger and Scott, are dead. This may be out of sync 'cause we are shooting with a wild camera and a standard recorder we found in the van. Mickey Knox's plan worked. We walked out the front door, into my news van and made our getaway. When we were followed by patrol cars, Mallory Knox killed Deputy Sheriff Duncan Homolka and tossed his body out of the back. Mickey told authorities over my police band that I would surely be next if they didn't give up the pursuit. They took Mickey at his word and called off the pursuit. Why helicopters weren't employed, I don't know. My only thought is it all happened too fast for arrangements to be made. We've just pulled off to the side of the road to do this interview. Tensions run high--
MICKEY (O.S.): We ain't got all fuckin' day!
WAYNE: Without any further ado, Mickey and Mallory...
WAYNE: Mallory, what did you think of Mickey's plan? Did you think it would work?
MALLORY: It wasn't 'till we got on the ground floor that I totally realized they weren't gonna shoot unless we shot first. When we got out of the stairwell, I remember thinking, 'Oh my God. This might work.' But Mickey knew it would work all along. There wasn't any doubt in his mind. It's not like there was and he just didn't show it. He knew it would work.
WAYNE (O.S.): What did you think then?
MALLORY: I wondered how long it would be before we'd get to be alone together. And I wondered if I could wait that long.
WAYNE (O.S.): Did you have anything to do with the riot in the laundry room?
MALLORY: Haven't you been listening to a fuckin' word I said? ...Oh, I'm sorry. Can I say fuckin'? I can't, can I?
WAYNE (O.S.): Try to keep it to a minimum.
MALLORY: We had nothing to do with that riot. That riot was just -- whatchmacallit --
MICKEY: Divine intervention.
MALLORY: What he said. We didn't know jack shit about and riot. It just happened. It was kismet. We didn't even know those people. How are we supposed to organize a riot when we've been in fuckin' isolation for the past year? Just bleep out the fucks and jack shits. (laughs) I mean, it's not like we care. If they wanna say we masterminded the whole thing, let 'em. It won't exactly keep us up at night. But you said you wanted the truth, and the truth is we were just lucky.
MICKEY: C'mon, c'mon, let's hurry this up.
WAYNE (O.S.): So, what now?
MALLORY: Well, now me and Mickey are gonna take it easy. Just enjoy each other's company, stop and smell the roses, notice the color purple, stuff like that.
WAYNE (O.S.): How do you intend to disappear? you're probably the most famous couple in America.
MALLORY: Well, back in slave times they had a thing called the underground railroad. And we got a whole fan club out there just waiting to be conductors. (to the camera) So, you kids out there, keep the faith. Cause Mickey and Mallory will be comin' to your town real soon.
MICKEY: Okay, that's enough. End of interview. We gotta move.
WAYNE (O.S.): Okay, just let me swing around and film myself asking the questions. And then I'll do my little wrap up.
MICKEY: Oh, we're gonna do a little wrap up, all right. But it won't be you starin' in the camera, looking dumb, and acting stupid. Instead, you're gonna be starin' down the barrels of our shotguns and we're gonna be pullin' the triggers.
WAYNE: That's a joke right?
WAYNE: Just wait one fucking minute.
MICKEY: I said I'd give you a interview. Now unless I'm mistaken, we just did a interview. (to Mallory) We did an interview, didn't we?
MALLORY: Looked like an interview to me.
MICKEY: I said we'd give you an interview. I never said we wouldn't kill you.
WAYNE: Wait! I don't know, but I kinda felt during this...this whole escape that a kind of bond--
WAYNE: (continues) ...developed between the three of us. We're kindda in this together, don't ya think?
MICKEY: No. Not really.
WAYNE: Don't touch those triggers! Please. I think I've already proven that a live Wayne Gayle is much more better that a dead...Way-- Gayle. I was your passport out of jail, not Duncan Homolka. But me! I'll be your passport outta---
MICKEY: Just save your breath, Wayne. We hate you. If anybody in the fuckin' world deserves to die, it's you.
WAYNE: Wait! You can't kill me. Mickey and Mallory always leave somebody alive to tell the tale.
MICKEY: We are. (points to camera) Your camera.
MICKEY: (John Wayne voice) Let's make a little music, Colorada.
