BOBBY: Get off the goddamn road!
BOBBY: Fuck you! There is a loud pop from the front of the Mustang and a thick cloud of steam now pours from the hood. The temperature gauge now starts rising.
BOBBY: No!.Not now!.Shit! A couple of SEMIS roar past in the opposite direction, buffetting the Mustang with their air waves.
BOBBY: Oh shit! Bobby looks around for someone, anyone. After a few moments he reaches into the car and blows the horn. He waits, then blows it again. From out of the station walks DARRELL - a slow-looking man in coveralls caked with grease and dirty. He looks the part of a yokel.
BOBBY: You Harlin?
DARRELL: Nope. Darrell.
BOBBY: Harlin around?
DARRELL: He's up at the Look Out. Darrell points a scraggly finger at a plateau in the distance.
BOBBY: Will he be back soon?
DARRELL: Doubt it. He's dead. The Look Out's a You own this place?
BOBBY: You own this place?
DARRELL: Then why do you call it Harlin's?
BOBBY: Then why do you call it Harlin's?
DARRELL: 'Cause Harlin used to own it.
BOBBY: But he's dead.
DARRELL: Bobby is confused, but chooses to drop the matter.
BOBBY: You want to take a look at my car? I think the radiator hose is
DARRELL: Damn. Gonna be another hot one today. Sometimes I don't even want to get out of bed. Course don't want to get out for the cold one's neither. Then of course the clouds come in. Darrell mops his brow with a greasy rag. It doesn't so much wipe the sweat as it does streak his forehead with dirt.
BOBBY: Look, Harlin, I've got places to be.
DARRELL: OK. Darrell. Could you just take a look at my radiator hose. It's busted. Darrell is clearly upset at being cut off. He leans into the car and looks at the engine.
BOBBY: OK. Darrell. Could you just take a look at my radiator hose. It's busted. Darrell is clearly upset at being cut off. He leans into the car and looks at the engine.
BOBBY: It's your radiator hose. It's busted.
DARRELL: It's your radiator hose. It's busted.
BOBBY: I know it's busted. What did I just tell Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
DARRELL: Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
BOBBY: If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time. Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
DARRELL: Somewhere else? Mister, somewhere else is fifty miles from here. Only other gas station down in town closed 3 years ago when the mine got shut.
BOBBY: Okay, I'm stuck. You happy? Now can you fix it, or not?
DARRELL: Yeah, I can fix it.
BOBBY: Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
DARRELL: Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
BOBBY: How much time?
DARRELL: BOBBY ( rewinds his watch )
DARRELL: Jesus. Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already.
BOBBY: Jesus. Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already.
DARRELL: Ninety-two. Course half hour from now might be seventy-two. These clouds move around a lot. Bobby wipes the bandaged hand across his forehead.
DARRELL: What happened to your hand? Self-consciously Bobby quickly drops his hand to his side.
BOBBY: You got to be more careful. Hands is important. Let me show you something. When I was a kid, now I don't know if you can still see it, but I gashed my fingers in a I'm very interested in this but is there Diner up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
DARRELL: You got to be more careful. Hands is important. Let me show you something. When I was a kid, now I don't know if you can still see it, but I gashed my fingers in a I'm very interested in this but is there Diner up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
BOBBY: I'm very interested in this but is there Diner up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
DARRELL: Diner up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
BOBBY: I'll be back in a couple of hours. And be careful with her, will you? Darrell slams down the hood.
DARRELL: Just a car. Bobby reaches into the car, pulls out a small ugly gym bag which he slings onto his shoulder and moves to the trunk, pops it open.
BOBBY: It's not just a car. It's a sixty-four and half Mustang convertible. That's the difference between you and me, and why you live here and I'm just passing through. The trunk lid rises in the air, partially blocking Bobby from Darrell, acting as a partition between them.
BOBBY: Now do you mind? I got to get some stuff out of the trunk. He throws the car key to Darrell who takes the hint, spits grotesquely into the dirt, scratches his nuts, and walks back to the shack. Concealed by the trunk lid, Bobby pulls out a GUN ( a .9mm black Baretta ), wrapped in a t-shirt, from the top of the bag. Perhaps we see a flash of green money, lots of it. Sports pages and betting sheets are piled inside. With a look around, Bobby takes the gun and stashes it underneath the rubber mat in the trunk. Briefly we notice a towing ROPE under the mat. There is a small travel bag, from which he peels a fresh bottle of Percodan, quickly taking two, as well as the sports page.
BLIND MAN: Hey! You there!
BOBBY: You want something, old man?
BLIND MAN: Don't call me old man. Ain't you got no respect, boy?
BOBBY: You want something?
BLIND MAN: Yeah I want something. I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
BOBBY: You can't do that yourself?
BLIND MAN: Hell no, I can't do that myself. I'm blind. Can't you see that?
BOBBY: I'm sorry, I didn't
BLIND MAN: What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on? Sunnin' myself?
BOBBY: I don't know. I thought you were keeping the sun out of your eyes.
BLIND MAN: I ain't got no eyes. You want to see?
BOBBY: Christ no!
BLIND MAN: Lost my eyes in Vyee-et-nam. Lost them fighting the commies. Fought the war and lost my eyes fightin' the commies just so you can come around here and make fun of I said I was sorry.
BOBBY: I said I was sorry.
BLIND MAN: Don't be sorry. Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
BOBBY: Yeah, sure. You got change?
BLIND MAN: Change? You want my change? I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
BOBBY: All right, old man. Christ. Bobby walks across the street to a very old soda machine; it has bottles instead of cans. The blind man shouts to Bobby.
BLIND MAN: Get me a Dr. Peppa! I don't want no Colas. Colas ain't nothing but flavored water. Bobby puts change in the machine and pulls out a bottle of Dr. Pepper. He starts back to the blind man.
BLIND MAN: Don't forget to open it for me. I can't be opening my own bottle.
BOBBY: Bobby goes back to the machine and opens the bottle, then walks back to the old man who pours a splash on the ground.
BLIND MAN: A little for Mother Earth. I'm about fifty percent Indian, you know. To all our He takes a hearty swig of the soda.
BLIND MAN: Ah! Just what I needed! Want some? The blind man holds the bottle out to Bobby. A string of saliva runs from his lips to the bottle's neck.
BOBBY: I'll pass. Bobby reaches down and pets the old man's dog. Flies buzz around both the dog and the Blind Man.
BOBBY: I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick.
BLIND MAN: That's 'cause he's dead. Bobby jumps back.
BOBBY: Oh, Jesus.
BLIND MAN: I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
BOBBY: What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
BLIND MAN: He's only just dead. What was I supposed to do with him? I can't take him away anywhere. And nobody wants to take him for me. Do you?
BOBBY: Hell no!
BLIND MAN: See. Ain't nothing I can do but keep him here beside me. That's where he belongs anyways. Me and Jesse, that's my dog, not anymore, but me and Jesse we been pals since the war when I lost my eyes. He was just a pup then. a companion that's loyal, that'll keep coming back to you no matter how much you kick him.I miss him. ( as Bobby moves away ) I'll see ya later, unless I come across something worse. Bobby noticing a beautiful woman down the street, GRACE McKENNA, compulsively turns and catches up to her. She is dressed better than the usual t-shirts and tank tops of this town perhaps a mail-ordered dress or a mother's hand-me-down. With her raven hair and caramel skin, it is obvious she is Native American. Her arms are full with an awkward package she can barely manage.
BOBBY: Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
GRACE: I'm just going to my car?
BOBBY: That's right on my way.
GRACE: My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
BOBBY: My name is Bobby. Now I'm not a stranger anymore. See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
GRACE: Do you have to call me that?
BOBBY: I don't know your real name.
GRACE: Maybe I don't want you to. Grace stops walking.
BOBBY: Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
GRACE: You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
BOBBY: I like that about me, beautiful.
GRACE: It's Grace.
BOBBY: May I carry your package, Grace? Grace hesitates, then gives the package to Bobby. He has trouble with it himself.
BOBBY: You sure you can manage?
GRACE: You sure you can manage?
BOBBY: I got it.
GRACE: Do you want me to carry your pack for you? Bobby blurts out emphatically.
BOBBY: He catches himself, and softens a bit.
BOBBY: No, I've got it.
GRACE: What happened to your hand?
BOBBY: You should be more careful. They start walking towards Grace's car.
GRACE: You should be more careful. They start walking towards Grace's car.
GRACE: It's very nice of you to help me. That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
BOBBY: No trouble at all, really. They get to a car and Bobby puts down the package.
BOBBY: Wasn't nothing.
GRACE: Oh, this isn't my car. It's down a ways. I should have parked closer. I just didn't think it would be so heavy. I could drive That's all right. I got it. Bobby takes up the package and they begin walking again. The package seems to have gained weight.
BOBBY: That's all right. I got it. Bobby takes up the package and they begin walking again. The package seems to have gained weight.
GRACE: It's just new drapes and curtain rods. If I had known it was going to be so heavy I would have had them delivered up to the Bobby struggles with the package. Sweat starts to sheet his That a fact?
GRACE: I just got tired of looking at the old drapes. My mother made them. Had them long as I can remember. You ever seen something and just knew you had to have it? Yes, I have.
GRACE: 'Course they cost a little more than I should really be spending. But, damn it, I don't hardly ever do anything nice for myself. I deserve nice things. I . can't . argue . They arrive at a JEEP SAHARA.
GRACE: This is it. Bobby practically drops the package. He is covered with sweat.
GRACE: Thank you, Bobby.
BOBBY: You're welcome, Grace.
GRACE: You're not from around here, are you?
BOBBY: Why you say that? Just because I help a lady with her package?
GRACE: You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
BOBBY: I just drove in this morning.
GRACE: Drove into Superior? What for?
BOBBY: Didn't have a choice. My car overheated up the road.
GRACE: You're lucky you didn't break down in the desert. Day like today, you'd be dead in no time. When you leaving?
BOBBY: Not until my car's fixed. I don't know how long that's going to take.
GRACE: And here I've made you all hot and sweaty. Grace steps to Bobby and places her hand against his chest. She rubs away some of the sweat. They look at each other a beat. A POLICE CAR, seen earlier, pulls up beside them from behind and idles. SHERIFF VIRGIL POTTER is a weathered, handsome, middle-aged man with suspicious eyes, black haired in contrast to Bobby's sandiness.
SHERIFF: Morning Grace.
GRACE: Morning Sheriff. Got my drapes.
SHERIFF: Well it's about time. Looks like you found yourself a helper too. Bobby wants to shrink behind the drapes.
GRACE: Well, he offered, and I just couldn't refuse. His car overheated.
SHERIFF: Bobby turns to the Sheriff and forces a smile.
BOBBY: Morning, officer.
SHERIFF: ( beat, to Grace ) Little excitement out at the reservation this morning. Wayne and Dale Elkhart were up drinking all night and then Wayne starts chasing Dale around the desert with his shotgun. BIA handled it. I went by for Anybody hurt?
GRACE: Anybody hurt?
SHERIFF: Hell, no. That Wayne can't shoot when he's sober, much less drunk. He's lucky he didn't kill his own danged self. Well, anyhow, you stay cool. Nice meeting you, son.
BOBBY: Same here, officer. The Sheriff drives on. Pause. They look at each other.
GRACE: Well, I guess I could use some help getting this box into the house. Not far. You could shower, get something cool to Bobby considers the offer, but there's not much considering to Well, I could use something cool.
BOBBY: Well, I could use something cool.
GRACE: Where you coming from?
BOBBY: All over. Chicago, Houston, Detroit. Just lately Dallas.
GRACE: You've been around.
BOBBY: I guess I've got wander in my blood.
GRACE: Where you headed?
BOBBY: I don't know. I have to make a stop in Vegas. Business to finish. Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara. I might be able to pick up some action there.
GRACE: So, what is it you do, Mister.?
BOBBY: Cooper. Bobby Cooper. Oh you know, whatever pays best. Little bartending, used to teach tennis, played a little competition . ( drops it ).
GRACE: I never played tennis. You just travel around Bobby no direction, no steady work. You must like taking chances.
BOBBY: If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
GRACE: What happens when you lose?
BOBBY: I pack up and go somewhere else. Somewhere else. I've never been anywhere else. Just once. Years ago. Went to the State Fair. It was nice, but it wasn't I couldn't stay in this place. I wouldn't. I'd just pick up, do whatever I had to do, and get out. Grace looks to Bobby and smiles.
BOBBY: I couldn't stay in this place. I wouldn't. I'd just pick up, do whatever I had to do, and get out. Grace looks to Bobby and smiles.
GRACE: Sometimes I feel the exact same way.
BOBBY: Look, I'll get the money! You don't want to do this!
GRACE: Thought you might like a refill on your lemonade. Bobby takes the lemonade and drinks it down. He rubs the glass against his forehead.
BOBBY: That's good. Cools you right off. ( tentatively ) I saw you watching me.
GRACE: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
BOBBY: I didn't say it bothered me.
GRACE: Did you like it; me watching you?
BOBBY: I guess. I've got an ego same as any man.
GRACE: Good, 'cause I liked what I saw. Bobby gives a smile as devilish as it is pleasant. Grace slides an ice cube from the glass between her lips. He notices a framed picture of GRACE and an OLDER MAN.
BOBBY: Nice place.
GRACE: Thank you. Grace sits on the edge of the bed. Bobby indicates the picture, Who's that, your father? Got a boyfriend?
BOBBY: Who's that, your father? Got a boyfriend?
GRACE: No. Not really. Bobby senses she's lying but plays along.
BOBBY: Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
GRACE: I guess it must.
BOBBY: What do you do anyway?
GRACE: A little of this, a little of that. Mostly I tell fortunes.
BOBBY: Where'd you learn to do that?
GRACE: From my father. He was the tribe's shaman.
BOBBY: A medicine man?
GRACE: Those are white words, not ours.
BOBBY: Nice house for a shaman's daughter. You must be good.
GRACE: Come here. Bobby goes to Grace and kneels before her. She takes his head in her hands and looks deep into his eyes. Her voice goes thick, but soft, like a morning fog.
GRACE: There's something in your past; something you want to keep hidden. There's a pain. Something . someone you can't forget. And there is something you want very badly. It seems very far away to you, but you are determined, and you will do what you must to get it. Bobby closes his hands on Grace's and takes them from his face. He is more than slightly spooked by the accuracy of Grace's My face tell you all that?
BOBBY: My face tell you all that?
GRACE: It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want. ( seductively ) What is it you want?
BOBBY: The same thing you do. They silently stare into each other's eyes.
GRACE: Really? I want to hang drapes. Grace walks from the room. For a moment Bobby stares after her. He takes an ice cube from his glass and crunches it in his INT. GRACE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY GRACE is standing on a step ladder trying to hang the drapes. BOBBY notices a photo of Grace with an older INDIAN WOMAN, her Hold me. Bobby stands behind her, gently places his hands on Grace's Tighter. I won't break. You know girls are a lot tougher than men think. Bobby holds her tighter as she finished hanging the drapes. His eyes are transfixed on her ass.
GRACE: Hold me. Bobby stands behind her, gently places his hands on Grace's Tighter. I won't break. You know girls are a lot tougher than men think. Bobby holds her tighter as she finished hanging the drapes. His eyes are transfixed on her ass.
GRACE: Tighter. I won't break. You know girls are a lot tougher than men think. Bobby holds her tighter as she finished hanging the drapes. His eyes are transfixed on her ass.
GRACE: There. All done. Lift me down.
BOBBY: Lift me down. Bobby lifts Grace down from the ladder. He holds her, his hands around her waist.
GRACE: Lift me down. Bobby lifts Grace down from the ladder. He holds her, his hands around her waist.
GRACE: You can let go of me now. I'm safe.( with a wicked smile ) How do they look?
BOBBY: Like you.
GRACE: BOBBY ( kidding )
GRACE: I like them. I was sick of looking at this room. I think they add a little life.
BOBBY: Nothing like a little liveliness. With a sexy pout Grace loads the next question.
GRACE: No more drapes to hang. Now what should we do?
BOBBY: I have an idea.
GRACE: And what would that be? Bobby steps close to Grace and takes her by the shoulders. He pulls her to him and presses his lips hard to hers. Grace doesn't respond.
BOBBY: All right, Grace. No more games. You flirt with me, then you run cold. You lead me on, then slap me down. I don't go for being jerked around.
BOBBY: You flirt with me, then you run cold. You lead me on, then slap me down. I don't go for being jerked around.
GRACE: Really? And what game did you want to play? You carry my box for me, and I fall into bed with you? Bobby grabs up his pack.
BOBBY: I think I can find my own way back to into town.
GRACE: Maybe I like to find out about a man first. Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
BOBBY: I'm just flesh and blood, baby. That and a few memories of bad women; just like most guys. But you already know that. You read my mind, remember? Thanks for the lemonade. Bobby turns to leave.
GRACE: You never did answer my question.
BOBBY: Still playing?
GRACE: That's not an answer. What is it you want?
BOBBY: You know what I want.
GRACE: Maybe I just want to hear you say it. For a beat Bobby stands and stares hard at Grace. His pack slides from his shoulder and thuds on the floor. With great determination, like a beast closing for the kill, Bobby moves for her. Grace stands firm, ready for him; her head tilts back. Her breath comes deep and hard. Just as Bobby is about to reach her, just as he is about to take her, he is stopped dead by the booming voice of JAKE McKENNA.
JAKE: Who the hell is this!?
BOBBY: Who the hell are you?
JAKE: I'm her husband. Husband .?
JAKE: Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in Easy, chief. I. I was helping your wife. I met her in town. She needed a hand with her drapes. That's all.
BOBBY: Easy, chief. I. I was helping your wife. I met her in town. She needed a hand with her drapes. That's all.
JAKE: Didn't much look like you were hanging I swear to you that's all that happened. I haven't so much as set foot in your A lot that means.
BOBBY: I swear to you that's all that happened. I haven't so much as set foot in your A lot that means.
JAKE: A lot that means.
BOBBY: Grace, tell him. Grace says nothing. She picks up a glass of lemonade and sips at it coolly.
BOBBY: Damn it, Grace! Tell him. If he says that's what happened, Jake, it must be true.
JAKE: Oh yeah, and I suppose you didn't have anything to do with it Grace, he just wandered up here by hisself. I got a mind to put you over my knee and paddle your ass raw! You bitch! Is this what it's all about? You sucker me up here so you can watch the two of us beat the shit out of each other over you? You both. Forget it! ( heads for the door )
JAKE: Where you going! 'Scuse me, you want to take my head off, mister. I won't even try to stop you. I deserve it for being an idiot. But if you're not, I think I'll be on my way. Jake punches him in the nose.
JAKE: You can't just walk in here and walk out, you sonufabitch! I'm gonna tear you a new You broke my nose!
BOBBY: You broke my nose!
JAKE: It ain't broke. It probably isn't, but it bleeds. Bobby feels the blood and then sees it on his shirt.
BOBBY: Goddamn it! I'm. you're lucky I don't sue Get goin' Junior. Bobby glares back at Grace who gives him a maddening little smile.
BOBBY: You people are crazy! He storms out holding his nose.
BOBBY: Fuckin' shithole! A CADILLAC slows beside him, JAKE driving.
BOBBY: What the fuck do you want?
JAKE: I'll give you a lift, son. Too hot to be walking. People die out here, y'know. Bobby continues walking.
JAKE: Aw, you're not still upset about that love tap, are you? If I meant you real trouble, I'd have given it to you by now. Get in, lad. Come on. Get in. Bobby gets in.
JAKE: After you huffed off, Grace lied so bad, I got so pissed off, I pulled down her pants to paddle her ass raw and finger-fucked it instead. Sorry I lost my cool like that. It's a funny thing, women.
BOBBY: Say, what happened to your hand?
JAKE: Say, what happened to your hand?
BOBBY: You've got to be
JAKE: You've got to be
BOBBY: Yeah, I know. More careful.
JAKE: I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna.
BOBBY: That's a solid name.
JAKE: I'm a solid man.
BOBBY: Bobby Cooper.
JAKE: "Bobby Cooper." What brings you to Superior, Coop?
BOBBY: An overheated car.
JAKE: Oh? Darrell taking good care of you?
BOBBY: Darrell's a moron. Yeah, he sure is a character. You need any help with that car now?. Where you Live there?
BOBBY: Live there?
JAKE: Live there?
BOBBY: Got work. I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him.
JAKE: You a sailor man? That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away. A man could pretty well disappear like that. Just sail away until all he was was a memory. I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
BOBBY: I hope so. ( beat ) Listen, McKenna about your wife: If I had known she was It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it? Not a wit. Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
JAKE: It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it? Not a wit. Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
BOBBY: Wait a second
JAKE: Ah, I can smell it on you. Jake wipes his hand across the back of Bobby's neck and holds it to his nose.
BOBBY: That's the sweat of a man who hasn't an honest bone in his body. Don't be offended, lad. A man who's got no ethics is a free man. I envy that. Beside, how can I blame you? That Grace sure has a mind of her own, and a body to match, don't she? Eh? Jake nudges Bobby who smiles a nervous smile.
JAKE: That's the sweat of a man who hasn't an honest bone in his body. Don't be offended, lad. A man who's got no ethics is a free man. I envy that. Beside, how can I blame you? That Grace sure has a mind of her own, and a body to match, don't she? Eh? Jake nudges Bobby who smiles a nervous smile.
JAKE: She does at that. I knew when I married her she was a free spirit. A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect? But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her. What are you to do, eh? Can't live with them, and you can't shoot Jake looks at Bobby, his lips curled into a sly smile.
BOBBY: Can't live with them, and you can't shoot Jake looks at Bobby, his lips curled into a sly smile.
JAKE: "You can't shoot 'em!" I like that. ( laughs ) I bet she led you on good, didn't she? Taking you up to the house to hang drapes. Oh that's a good one. Bet she had you hard as a rock wiggling her ass in your face. I bet you just wanted to pull down her pants and hog her out. Then me busting in like some wild bear. Ha! Bet you had a fire going under you.
BOBBY: Like you don't know.
JAKE: Mad like a dog in heat, I bet you were. I can tell you got a temper on you. Bobby gives a little laugh.
JAKE: Bet you just wanted to snap her neck right then, didn't you? Bet you just wanted to kill her. Bobby starts to laugh heartily. Jake joins in, then stops Would you?
JAKE: Would you?
BOBBY: Would I what?
JAKE: Would you kill her? Bobby starts to laugh. Bobby stops laughing.
JAKE: Because I'm sick and tired of her little games. Because you could do it and drift away on your boat and no one would ever see you again. Because I've got a fifty-thousand dollar life insurance policy on her, and I would be more than happy to give the man who does her in a good chunk of it. For a moment Bobby sits in silence not sure of what to make of the offer.
BOBBY: I've done a few things but I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
JAKE: How do you know if you've never tried?
BOBBY: This is a joke, right? You just want to rattle me. Right? They reach town and Jake stops the car near a small GROCERY
JAKE: That's right. Nothing but a joke. That's Bobby gets out of the car. With a big smile Jake says:
JAKE: Enjoy your stay, lad. Jake speeds away. Bobby looks after him.
BOBBY: INT. SMALL GROCERY STORE - LATER The store is small and dark and empty save for a tiny, older Mexican WOMAN who is behind the counter. BOBBY enters.
BOBBY: Got any cold soda?
WOMAN: Soda. You got any soda?
BOBBY: Soda. You got any soda?
WOMAN: Hablar slowly, por favor. My ingles no es Soda. You know. Bobby cups his hand and brings it to his mouth pantomiming.
BOBBY: Soda. You know. Bobby cups his hand and brings it to his mouth pantomiming.
WOMAN: Oh. Something to eat. Si. She holds up a pack of Twinkies.
BOBBY: Not eat. Drink. What the fuck is drink in Spanish . uh, agua? The old woman's eyes widen. She starts to scream, but quickly clamps her hands over her mouth. For a moment Bobby thinks the woman is screaming at what he has said. Then, as if he feels a presence behind him, Bobby turns slowly to face the TWO tough-looking, unshaven, tattoo-covered BIKERS. One holds a That's right, lady. Keep it in you and nobody gets hurt. That goes for you too, stud. Gimmie the money. Now!
BIKER: That's right, lady. Keep it in you and nobody gets hurt. That goes for you too, stud. Gimmie the money. Now!
WOMAN: SECOND BIKER
SECOND BIKER: The dinero, Senora. Hand it over. Bobby shifts his weight trying to hide his pack behind his back. The woman goes to an old-fashioned cash register and rings it open. She hands the money to the biker.
BIKER: That's it? Lady, I got kids to put through Es all I have. The biker turns to Bobby.
WOMAN: Es all I have. The biker turns to Bobby.
BIKER: Okay, pal. Whatcha got? Give it, now. Bobby pulls a thick wad of cash ( $1,000 plus ) from his pant pocket, tosses it on the counter. Nice.Just who are you beautiful? What else you got for papa? Bobby makes a show of pulling out his wallet, flings it to him.
BIKER: Better.you're getting tasty. Now toss the bag, sweetie.
BOBBY: It's just books.
BIKER: I'm a reader. Toss it. It's personal things.family things.
BIKER: How touching.I like family values. Give it to me. Bobby takes an unsteady breath.
BOBBY: SECOND BIKER
BIKER: SECOND BIKER
SECOND BIKER: Hey man, forget it. Come on.
BIKER: Senor, give him the bag.
WOMAN: Senor, give him the bag.
BIKER: That's all right. He doesn't want to give me the bag.
SECOND BIKER: He's fucking with you man. Shoot him. .he doesn't have to give me the bag. The biker grabs Bobby's bag. Bobby flinches in anticipation of a shot but refuses to let go of the bag. The biker swings the gun hard, clipping Bobby across the forehead. Bobby falls against the counter and to the floor. The woman starts to scream. The biker grabs up the pack, then, looking back at the woman, sees a ring on her finger. He grabs her hand and pulls at the ring. The woman screams wildly.
SECOND BIKER: Let's go, man.
BIKER: A little extra never hurt, Benji, would you just relax.
WOMAN: No! No! My wedding ring. He pulls the ring from the woman's finger and pushes her back. With Bobby's bag slung over his shoulder he turns to leave.
BIKER: Now we go.
WOMAN: You go to El Diablo! From beneath the counter the woman pulls a shotgun. The woman fires A SHOT that rips through the bag and into the back of the biker. He falls to the ground, very dead, amid a shower of blood and shredded money.
SECOND BIKER: Bugger! You bitch! The Second Biker now sees the money floating all over the place out of the torn bag. His eyes go big with greed as he FIRES at the old woman, who ducks behind the counter. The Biker grabs for the bag and what's left of the money, not expecting the feisty old lady to pop up and unload her SECOND BLAST into him and the bag. Whatever was left of the money on the first round is now gone to shreds along with the bag and the Biker who is very dead. Bobby is staggered, crawls towards the shreds. Hijos de puta. Bayan a comer su propia mierda en el infierno. ( TRANSLATION: Sons of bitches. Go eat your own shit in hell ). She comes around the counter to his side as he grabs his wallet and the $1000 cash roll from the dead biker's pants.
WOMAN: I call the sheriff.
BOBBY: No! No police. Bobby gives her a hundred dollars.
WOMAN: A hundred dollars? No police? Bobby gives her some more cash. She looks at him. Finally he gives her the entire wad.
BOBBY: No police until I leave. Bobby stumbles from the store as the screen burns a bright white.
BOBBY: Hey, your . what the hell happened to Don't look like nothing.
DARRELL: Hey, your . what the hell happened to Don't look like nothing.
BOBBY: Don't look like nothing.
DARRELL: Don't look like nothing.
BOBBY: Just banged my head. It was an accident.
DARRELL: Another accident? You got to be more Bobby rolls his eyes. Then notices the front fenders have been What the hell happened to my car?
BOBBY: What the hell happened to my car?
DARRELL: Bottom hose was shot too. Rotted clear through. Had to put a new one in. Runs like a dream now. How much?
DARRELL: Well . you got your parts, you got your labour . let's call it a hundred-fifty How much!?
BOBBY: How much!?
DARRELL: To replace a goddamn radiator hose!?
BOBBY: To replace a goddamn radiator hose!?
DARRELL: A goddamn radiator hose in a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang. You know how long it took me to find that hose?
BOBBY: About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
DARRELL: Actually, it's been about three hours. You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy. What you expect but fancy damn That's a Ford, not a Ferrari. You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
BOBBY: That's a Ford, not a Ferrari. You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
DARRELL: "That's not just a Ford, that's a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang."
BOBBY: What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
DARRELL: I don't know, but "it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through." Now you owe me a hundred-fifty dollars.
BOBBY: It might as well be fifteen-hundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
DARRELL: Then you ain't gonna have the car.
BOBBY: Listen, man. I got rolled half an hour ago for everything I had. Bobby digs through his bloodied wallet, trying to hide it from Darrell. He fishes out a five dollar bill. Then digs out a bloody one dollar bill from his pocket.
BOBBY: I've got five.six dollars. Darrell snatches the five from him and adds it to a thick wad of greasy bills he carries in his overalls.
DARRELL: Then you're only a hundred-forty-five in the hole. You can keep that dollar. Now why don't you just take your American Express Gold Card, and call that guy with the big schnooz on TV and have him send you the money lickity split.
BOBBY: I don't have a goddamn credit card.
DARRELL: Now that's too bad. I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you're gonna have to work this one off. Bobby proffers his Movado watch.
BOBBY: Look, I got a Movado. It's worth at least seven, eight hundred. You could sell it for Who the hell to? Shit, can't see no You don't need numbers. That's why it's expensive. Look at the gold. Darrell doubts that, shake his head.
BOBBY: You don't need numbers. That's why it's expensive. Look at the gold. Darrell doubts that, shake his head.
DARRELL: .got no day, got no date. Probably ain't worth a duck's fart ( proffers his own watch ). This one here cost me $3.75 and it's got every doodad you can imagine. No sir I'll stick with this ( walks away ).
BOBBY: You son of a bitch! I'll have my lawyers shut you down.
DARRELL: You ain't got no credit card but you got a lawyer. Sweet talk me all you want. Didn't you read the sign? It says.
BOBBY: What sign? Fuck the sign. I want my car.
DARRELL: I want my hundred and forty-five dollars. Bobby stands his ground for a moment as if deciding whether or not to fight for the car, then wheels and walks away. Darrell looks at him, smirks.
ED: One-hundred-thirteen degrees. That was back in July of forty-seven. That afternoon it dropped down to forty three! True story.
BOYD: One time last year I remember it went from 98 to 23 same day. Wind, black clouds come out like. BOBBY comes out of the men's room and sits at the end of the counter. He has cleaned himself up a bit but still looks like a mess. He buries his face in the menu.
BOBBY: You got a beer?
FLO: What kind?
BOBBY: No Beck's. A-1, Coors.
FLO: No Beck's. A-1, Coors.
BOBBY: No, we ain't got no Heineken. We got Genuine Draft?
FLO: No, we ain't got no Heineken. We got Genuine Draft?
BOBBY: Genuine Draft?
FLO: No. Just plain ol' Miller. Now you can fuckin' take it or you can fuckin' leave I'll fuckin' take it. To go.
BOBBY: I'll fuckin' take it. To go.
FLO: I'll be right back with that beer. Flo moves off.
BOBBY: .and a waitress named Flo. Christ. As Bobby stares at the money on the counter in front of him, he hears, from somewhere outside the diner, the sound of a POLICE RADIO crackling. He now feels something against his foot. He looks down and sees a CAT rubbing against his leg. He gives it a good kick sending it sliding across the floor with a screech.
BOBBY: Fucking cat. In the background, two teenagers sit at a booth. TOBY looks the part of a local, wearing jeans and a white T-shirt. His hair is cropped close and he looks to be a senior in high school. His girl, JENNY, is nondescript, neither ugly nor beautiful. She is the kind of girl most guys would pass without a second look. Toby gets up from his booth and goes to the bathroom. After he is gone Jenny walks to Bobby.
JENNY: Hey, Mister. You gotta quarter for the I wanna play a song on the juke. You got a Bobby looks at Jenny, then picks a quarter from his winnings and flips it to her. He can't resist putting a little charm into it.
BOBBY: I wanna play a song on the juke. You got a Bobby looks at Jenny, then picks a quarter from his winnings and flips it to her. He can't resist putting a little charm into it.
JENNY: I wanna play a song on the juke. You got a Bobby looks at Jenny, then picks a quarter from his winnings and flips it to her. He can't resist putting a little charm into it.
JENNY: What happened to your hand?
BOBBY: I cut it shaving; I know, I gotta be more Got any requests?
JENNY: Got any requests?
BOBBY: That country shit all sounds the same to How about I pick one out for you? Bobby half smiles. Jenny plays a song. Patsy Cline's "Your Cheatin' Heart." Jenny takes up a stool next to Bobby's.
JENNY: How about I pick one out for you? Bobby half smiles. Jenny plays a song. Patsy Cline's "Your Cheatin' Heart." Jenny takes up a stool next to Bobby's.
JENNY: You like Patsy Cline? I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
BOBBY: Cause she's dead.
JENNY: Gee, that's sad. Don't that make you sad?
BOBBY: I've had time to get over it.
JENNY: You're not from around here, are you? Where you from?
BOBBY: You ain't from Oz. Oz is in that movie.
JENNY: You ain't from Oz. Oz is in that movie.
BOBBY: You're too quick for me. Toby walks back into the room. He looks at Jenny. He looks at Bobby. He looks at Jenny talking to Bobby. He loses it.
TOBY: No..No..No I'm seeing but I'm not believin'.Stop the wedding. This can't be. Hey! What are you doing with my girl? Bobby says nothing, ignoring Toby.
TOBY: I axed you a question.
JENNY: Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing. We was just talking.
TOBY: You shut your mouth, girl, and get back over to our table. ( to Bobby ) Now, I'm not going to axe you again, Mister. What were you doing with my girl?
BOBBY: I wasn't doing anything.
TOBY: That's not the way it looked to me. Looked to me like you was trying to make time with Make time? Is everybody in this town on Honest, Toby. I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox.
BOBBY: Make time? Is everybody in this town on Honest, Toby. I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox.
JENNY: Honest, Toby. I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox.
TOBY: Stay out of this, Jenny. We got man's business to take care of. I ain't never taken no drugs, mister, and .
BOBBY: Then maybe you should've. Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
TOBY: You expect me to believe that?
BOBBY: I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
TOBY: Mister, I'm calling you out.
BOBBY: What? You want to fight? Over her? Bobby looks Jenny over.
FLO: Toby, you go finish your soda and leave the man alone. You know who I am? Toby N. Tucker. Everyone round here call me TNT. You know Let's see.they're not very imaginative?
BOBBY: Let's see.they're not very imaginative?
TOBY: 'Cause I'm just like dynamite. And when I go off, somebody gets hurt.
BOBBY: Fine. I was making time with your girl. Now I'm scared to death and I learned my lesson. Now can you go away?
TOBY: Not before I settle with you, chickenshit!
BOBBY: Christ, I don't believe this!
TOBY: Stand up.
BOBBY: I wasn't hitting on your girl!
TOBY: Stand up, Mister, or I'll beat you where you sit. Bobby sits for a beat. he doesn't need a fight with Toby now with his damaged hand nor does he need to be noticed either. He sits there.
FLO: Toby, you stop it now! Can't you see he's got a hurt hand?
TOBY: Don't you never mind, Flo. This is gonna be over real quick. Reluctantly Bobby rises, facing off against Toby, each clenching their fist and waiting for the other to make the first move. The tension builds. We see it on the faces of Jenny, Flo and the regulars. Just then the record on the juke ends and the needle scratches off. There is the crackle of a police radio as the door to the diner opens and SHERIFF VIRGIL POTTER walks in. The tension eases. Toby, mindful of the sheriff, steps closer to Bobby and whispers menacingly into his ear.
TOBY: You're lucky, Mister. Don't think it's over. I called you out and I'm gonna see this through. You hear me? ( to Jenny ) Come on, girl. I got half a mind to make you walk home. Toby takes Jenny by the arm and pulls her out of the diner.
FLO: My lord, that little baby of yours Virgil, has gotten cuter'n a bunny's nose.
SHERIFF: What was that all about?
FLO: You know how that Toby is. Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
SHERIFF: More like Jenny is after every man she You pay Toby no mind. He just likes to show off for his girl. Give him a couple of hours, he'll cool off. Still want that I'll take it to go. Bobby holds his hand to his face to cover the cut on his How's it with you, Sheriff?
ED: How's it with you, Sheriff?
SHERIFF: Already started out bad. Couple of bikers from out of town tried to knock over Jamilla's grocery store this morning. It was a real shootout.
BOYD: What happened?
SHERIFF: The old witch killed 'em both.
ED: Holy shit!
FLO: Poor thing. Is she all right?
SHERIFF: Sure, when the sons of bitches tried to steal her wedding ring. That's when she started shooting. Can't blame her. The ring was all Carlos left her when he died. Store's a mess.
BOYD: It's the desert. That's what it is. The desert makes everybody crazy. Ain't that right, Sheriff? People go crazy out here.
ED: Come on, Boyd. I've got to make tracks. That yogurt's got to make Santa Fe before it spoils.
BOYD: Dr. Pepper don't have that problem. Ed and Boyd toss a few bills on the counter and exit. Flo stands near the cash register with Bobby's beer.
FLO: I can't open off-sale for you, sugar. Bobby pays for the beer ( $1.75 ). Flo opens the register.
FLO: Let me get your change.
SHERIFF: Flo, I'm just gonna help myself to a refill on the coffee. The Sheriff reaches around the counter for the pot.
FLO: You be careful now, Virgil. Just as the words leave Flo's mouth the Sheriff spills the pot. It shatters against the floor spilling hot coffee everywhere. Flo runs over to him.
SHERIFF: Son of a bitch!
FLO: Virgil! Now look at what you done! Are you all right?
SHERIFF: I think I burned my gun hand! As Flo bends to wipe the counter, Virgil touches her intimately. How 'bout we put something soft on it later? ( a look )
FLO: ( quietly ) I could put some butter on it, hon'. ( Her normal abrasive voice ) It'd serve you right, you asshole. Put it under some cold water. Joe, run get a mop and clean this fuckin' mess up. While everyone is distracted Bobby notices that the register drawer has been left open. He looks around to make sure he is not being watched. Slowly he eases his hand towards the drawer. It gets closer and closer. As he is about to grab the money there, the cat - the same one he kicked away earlier - hisses and claws at his hand. Bobby jumps back startled.
FLO: Shasta! Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that? Sorry about that, mister. Let's see, you want $3.25. ( gives it to him ) You try to have a nice day now, would you?
BOBBY: Sure, I'll try. With the Sheriff occupied, and the Mexican Jose mopping the floor, Bobby exits.
BOBBY: Cici? Cici, it's Bobby.Bobby Cooper.Yeah, look, I know it's been a while, but I'm kind of in a dollars.That's a lie. I called you on your birthday..Two years ago.I can't help it if you didn't get the message. Cici, honey, I don't want to argue. I need you to wire me the money.Because they're fucking going to KILL ME! I didn't steal your CD's.Yeah, well where's my Mr. Coffee. Bobby slams the phone.
BOBBY: Bitch. Cunt.
BOBBY: 73-11, this is Pluto. What's the line on Pluto. Fucking deadbeat. We head about you. You owe "the commie" 13 dimes, why you tryin' to get in my office? Lose this fuckin' number.
GAMBLER'S VOICE: Pluto. Fucking deadbeat. We head about you. You owe "the commie" 13 dimes, why you tryin' to get in my office? Lose this fuckin' number.
BOBBY: Mike.Mike.you asshole.
GAMBLER'S VOICE: Mike who? Bobby, frustrated, clicks off.
SERGEI: MR. ARKADY SERGEI ( nods yes )
MR. ARKADY: Sergei, what are you, a Neanderthal? How many times do I have to tell you? You answer a phone "hello," not "da." Sorry, Mr. Arkady.( into phone )"Hello?"
SERGEI: Mr. Arkady, deadbeat Cooper's calling. Mr. Arkady doesn't acknowledge him.
SERGEI: He's calling collect. At this Mr. Arkady's head springs up. He snatches the phone from Sergei. Bobby, what a surprise. I expected to be seeing you, not talking to you over the EXT. PHONE BOOTH - STREET BOBBY on the phone.
BOBBY: I know, Mr. Arkadin. I know. I was on my way to you, it's just . what a day I've had. I know I'm coming up with a highly improbable story, and I know you're not going to believe this, but this .is. what happened. I had the money, I swear I had it. I was on my way to Vegas when my car breaks down in the middle of nowhere. Mr. Arkady cleans his nails completely disinterested in what Bobby is saying.
MR. ARKADY: That's a shame, Bobby. A real shame.
BOBBY: And that's not the half of it, Mr. Right, Mr. Arkady. And that's not the half of it. I got your money, and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then. well, it gets robbed!
MR. ARKADY: Right, Mr. Arkady. And that's not the half of it. I got your money, and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then. well, it gets robbed!
BOBBY: Right, Mr. Arkady. And that's not the half of it. I got your money, and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then. well, it gets robbed!
MR. ARKADY: .And let me guess. This robber he gets your money.
BOBBY: No. Two of them. Two robbers. And they get nailed. get shot by the old lady.
MR. ARKADY: The old lady?
BOBBY: With a and. and the money in my bag gets all shredded to bloody pieces. Not one bill is left alive. I mean, what are the odds? Pretty long, Bobby.
BOBBY: Mr. Arkady, honest, I ad to beat it outta there before the cops showed. So now I don't have a cent to my name. I can't even get my car out of the garage. I tell you, Mister. ( pause ) if it weren't for bad luck I wouldn't have nay fuckin' luck at all, you know? ( beat, waits ) So, I was wondering if you could wire me a hundred fifty-dollars so I could get my car out of this garage, see? The bus depot here has a Western Union thing. And of course I'll pay it back with the rest of the money.
BOBBY: But which I can get. No problem. Look, I can sell my car in Vegas. Blue book it's worth 16 at least. I just need the 150, Sergei looks like he's ready to pound heads. Where are you? Uh.a little shithole in Arizona called Superior. About 200 miles east of Phoenix. Superior, hunh? Bobby suddenly feeling suspicious.
MR. ARKADY: .Now, let me get this straight. Two years you give me problems with your fuckin' payoffs. Now you owe me thirteen-thousand dollars, you call me - collect - then ask me to wire you one-hundred-fifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed.
MR. ARKADY: A hundred and . Now you listen to me you deadbeat little punk: I don't care if you got hit by a truck and run over by a steamroller. You owe me thirteen-thousand dollars and I want it. I don't care how you get it, or where from, but I want it on my desk tomorrow, or I'll show you what real bad luck is. Sergei snaps a pencil he's holding in his hand, which goes flying by Arkady's head, forcing him to duck.
MR. ARKADY: Do you understand me you little fuck? Oh, fuck you too!
MR. ARKADY: What'd you say to me!
BOBBY: Shit I'm sorry!.you can't believe the strain I'm under. I'm just under a lot of strain here. There is a sharp silence at the other end. Bobby waits.
MR. ARKADY: Bobby, you owed me that 'bread' 4 weeks ago. Now you tell me you want another week. That's 5 weeks, Bobby. That's also 5 fingers, cause you and I know it's a finger a week Bobby. So you got balls. Goodnow you come here tomorrow and you talk to me real nice and maybe I don't take the other 3 fingers you owe me, you see? Tomorrow and Bobby, don't make me come look for you, okay.have nice day. He hands the phone back to Sergei. You got that? have nice day ( hangs up ).
MR. ARKADY: The nerva that piece of shit! And look at you, you Neanderthal don't you fuckin' break pencils, you goombah!
SOFIA: Finger? What are you, a faggot? In my country a man don't pay we cut off his Arkady motions Sergei to come close.
MR. ARKADY: Get your ass down to this Superior, Arizona. Bring me this Bobby Cooper. I don't think he got the lesson. This is your last chance, Sergei.
SERGEI: EXT. STREET - DAY BOBBY, desperate, stares at the bandage of his wounded hand. It throbs, holding the hand to his ear. We hear an OPERATOR'S VOICE:
BOBBY: OPERATOR( V.O. )
BOBBY: OPERATOR( V.O. )
BOBBY: Goddamn rat's ass fuck! Shit! Damn! Damn! He marches from the phone booth, past an old HARDWARE STORE. The phone falls from the hook and we hear a recorded voice:
BOBBY: Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! I hate this fuckin' town! I hate it! Do you hear me? Get me outta here, please. I gotta get out of this place. As if in answer, a JEEP drives by on the main street. GRACE looks pretty hot up there in the driver's seat, her eyes, behind sunglasses, flicking over him but not acknowledging him as she keeps going. Bobby's eyes throw back his own hostility at her, but unfortunately she misses it, as he now notices across the street a well-kept building with the most modern decor and signage, reading "McKenna's Realty Co." He thinks about it, in a quandary.
JAKE: What can I do for you, lad?
BOBBY: I was hoping we could talk.
JAKE: Talk? About what?
BOBBY: About things. About your wife.
JAKE: Sweet Grace? What about her?
BOBBY: About what you said this morning. Jake shakes his head as if he doesn't understand.
BOBBY: You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife. Fifty-thousand dollars.
JAKE: I do.
BOBBY: You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
JAKE: I did?
BOBBY: Don't play simple with me, Jake. You're a betting man. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
JAKE: Boy I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
BOBBY: I'm not rambling.
JAKE: You're talking like a madman.
BOBBY: Well then, I guess that qualifies me for citizenship in this town. You're the one brought it up. This morning. In your car.
JAKE: Oh, that was just loose talk. Husband gettin' pissed off. I don't want anybody Bullshit. You wanted me to kill her.
BOBBY: Bullshit. You wanted me to kill her.
JAKE: A man doesn't always mean the things he You meant it.
BOBBY: You meant it.
JAKE: What makes you say that?
BOBBY: Because you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
JAKE: And what does that make you?
BOBBY: The slimy bastard who's going to do it for you. ( pause ) You're a jealous man Jake. If you can't have Grace to yourself.well, you're not the sharing kind. For a moment Jake stares quietly at Bobby.
JAKE: Well, I guess I have what you call a love-hate relationship with Grace.
BOBBY: You love her, but you hate her?
JAKE: No, I hate loving her. I hate the kind of person she is. I hate having to tolerate the little "games" she plays. Like fucking half of the town behind my back and laughing at me. The bitch. She loved to play. She wants me to hit her and when I hit her she likes it. She tortures me. But she's family. She's my little girl. My baby. I couldn't stand to watch her eyes roll back in her head as she sucks her last breath, or to see her pretty pink brains spill from her skull. No. Not me. But you? You got the killing in you, boy.How much you want? A pause.
BOBBY: Make it twenty. Twenty-thousand? I don't have that kind of money. I won't get the insurance until months after she's dead. I don't imagine you'll want to be stickin' around after poor Grace's demise. Twenty-thousand; that's more money than I could ever get my hands on.
BOBBY: How much could you get?
JAKE: Maybe . ten-thousand. And that's a I need thirteen.
BOBBY: I need thirteen.
JAKE: That's a bit much.
BOBBY: We're not talking about buying a car Jake. We're talking about killing your wife. It's thirteen, or it's nothing. For a moment the two men stand silent. All we hear is the ticking of a grandfather CLOCK that stands in the corner.
JAKE: You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
BOBBY: I'm not your boy. I don't like you. I got no choice but to do business with you. Let's just call this a nasty little marriage of convenience.
JAKE: Don't say that. I had a marriage of convenience with Grace, and look where that's lead. Well, looks like we got ourselves a contract. Do we shake hands?
JAKE: If you can't trust the man you've hired to kill your wife .? The thing is it's got to look like an accident; that's the thing. If it doesn't, then it's no good. I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
BOBBY: How do you want it?
JAKE: How the hell should I know? I've never had a wife killed before. Jesus Christ! You want this job, you don't know how to do this? I guess I should have hired a You want to do this yourself? I don't have to do this, you know.
BOBBY: You want to do this yourself? I don't have to do this, you know.
JAKE: Be quiet, boy. I got to figure this thing. I'm thinking. It can't be done at the house. It should be. Jake walks the office thinking.
BOBBY: Come to think of it, how 'bout some money Oh yeah sure. Why don't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I'm at it. I know you. This is what you do: Go to the house to see her.
JAKE: Oh yeah sure. Why don't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I'm at it. I know you. This is what you do: Go to the house to see her.
BOBBY: ( beat ) And tell her what?
BOBBY: I know you're not surprised I'm back here, cause you can read my mind and all. She's not surprised. That's some cut. I told you to be more Yeah, well I said I was an idiot. Whatta you say we get out of here, take a drive somewhere, talk.
BOBBY: Yeah, well I said I was an idiot. Whatta you say we get out of here, take a drive somewhere, talk.
GRACE: How do you know he's still not here?
BOBBY: Guys like me take those chances. Let's go.
BOBBY: Are there snakes out here?
GRACE: They hear you comin'. They won't bother you. Just don't sneak up on 'em.
BOBBY: Doesn't the isolation bother you?
GRACE: Yeah, but I like the sun. I grew up on a reservation. The sun, the desert; they like a religion to us. Jake's the same way. He loves the desert. I guess we're alike that way. That's about the only way.
BOBBY: You love him?
GRACE: Did you ever?
BOBBY: Did you ever?
GRACE: Depends on what you call love. I grew up on a reservation. A patch of desert in the middle of nowhere. That's where they stick Indians, Bobby. That's where they leave us to die. My brother killed himself when he was 19 cause he couldn't take it anymore. There's no hope there. Jake was my ticket out. Mom and me.
BOBBY: Is that why you're with him?
GRACE: I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line. I wanted him. I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him. Is that love?
BOBBY: I'm guessing no.
GRACE: Yeah, I guess you're right.
BOBBY: I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
GRACE: I'm still here, aren't I? See this? Grace sweeps her hand before her across the expanse of the desert. The vultures are very much a part of this landscape.
BOBBY: You could leave him.
GRACE: I don't know how.
BOBBY: Walk away.
GRACE: It's not that easy. Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please. I can't. I don't want to be alone. I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
BOBBY: You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
GRACE: Is that so bad? It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy. For awhile, anyway. I mean, I would . do things for him. I guess I'm no good that way. I guess I tried to sucker you along like that. Do you hate me for it? I wouldn't blame you if you did. But maybe it's like you said: You just got to do whatever it takes to get Whatever it takes. Grace steps to the edge of the plateau.
GRACE: I wish I was a bird. I know it's stupid. Every child says that. When I was growing up some of the old ones on the reservation believed people could actually change into animals. I wish I could. We see Bobby behind Grace. He stares at her standing on the edge of the plateau. He rises and walks towards her slowly, but with deliberation.
GRACE: Hate's a funny thing. Right now I bet you don't know if you want to kill me, or fuck Bobby hesitates, then pulls Grace close and kisses her with great ardor on the lips.
GRACE: No.Stop! I can't! Her eyes withdraw into another dimension, as she hikes her dress back up. Bobby comes out of his own head, feels the distance between them.
BOBBY: What's the matter?.Grace?
GRACE: Don't feel like nothing. He finishes relieving himself behind a tree, puts his pants back Get out of town, Bobby, as quick as you Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women. You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
BOBBY: Don't feel like nothing. He finishes relieving himself behind a tree, puts his pants back Get out of town, Bobby, as quick as you Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women. You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
GRACE: Get out of town, Bobby, as quick as you Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women. You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
BOBBY: Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women. You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
GRACE: You'd never understand.
BOBBY: Try me.
GRACE: It's just such a mess. With Jake I mean.
BOBBY: Nothing I understand better than a mess. Jake was with my Mom after my real Dad You mean the Shaman?
BOBBY: You mean the Shaman?
GRACE: nothin' after he died. Jake took us in, gave us a little money. He used to call me his "little halfbreed". He kept Mom on the side y'know, cause he was married someplace else. He had kids in Phoenix I think, no one knew him around here.but the thing was.you see. .he was raping me the whole time.for years. He loved to do things to me. Believe it or not, he used to say he was in love with my ass. Y'ever been in love with a woman's ass? The dominoes are tumbling for Bobby.
BOBBY: You're sick too.he loved to do things to me. Control me. My Mom.it tore her up cause she couldn't do nothing about it. She become alcoholic.and the funny thing is I liked it. I liked being controlled by Jake. The truth was as far out and crazy as he got, I wanted more. I wanted to go all the way. Women say they don't want to be taken like, really taken that's bullshit they do. The first time he finished with me, he said I was a woman now. I was 14. Then he started crying like a baby.wanted me to hold him. It's a strange feeling to hate someone so much for so many years, but still want to hold him, comfort him. They found my Mom right down there ( points ) at the bottom of Apache Leap. She had cactus needles stuck all over her body and Virgil.Sheriff Potter said she was drunk and went insane. But I'll never believe she ran off that cliff by accident. She was born on this earth and she loved it. She was like me. She just wanted to fly away. Bobby is quietly stunned. A whole world has opened up to him; and he isn't sure yet where the story ends. There is some force at work here, beyond his control.
GRACE: You're sick too.he loved to do things to me. Control me. My Mom.it tore her up cause she couldn't do nothing about it. She become alcoholic.and the funny thing is I liked it. I liked being controlled by Jake. The truth was as far out and crazy as he got, I wanted more. I wanted to go all the way. Women say they don't want to be taken like, really taken that's bullshit they do. The first time he finished with me, he said I was a woman now. I was 14. Then he started crying like a baby.wanted me to hold him. It's a strange feeling to hate someone so much for so many years, but still want to hold him, comfort him. They found my Mom right down there ( points ) at the bottom of Apache Leap. She had cactus needles stuck all over her body and Virgil.Sheriff Potter said she was drunk and went insane. But I'll never believe she ran off that cliff by accident. She was born on this earth and she loved it. She was like me. She just wanted to fly away. Bobby is quietly stunned. A whole world has opened up to him; and he isn't sure yet where the story ends. There is some force at work here, beyond his control.
GRACE: After he got his divorce, he forced me to marry him.but when I saw her body, I swore to her on my soul that some day I'd get Jake for what he did to her.
BOBBY: I'm sorry.
GRACE: Yeah. What do you want. Life, right? ( shrugs, stoic ) Have you ever been to Is it far from here?
BOBBY: GRACE ( as if in a dream )
BOBBY: Oh yeah. It's far, it's another world.
GRACE: Is it pretty?
BOBBY: Oh yeah. It's beautiful, beautiful beaches. Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see. Would you take me with you? I wish I could.
GRACE: Please. I won't hang on you. As soon as we get there you can dump me. I don't care. I just want to get out of here.
BOBBY: Honey, baby, I of here myself. Believe it or not, I need a lousy hundred and fifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic.
GRACE: Darrell? You know he and Jake are.
BOBBY: You don't have any money put away, do you?
GRACE: Jake never gives me more'n twenty bucks at a time, like a bird in a cage, he don't want me goin' anywhere.
BOBBY: .you could get me money. I'll get you out of here. She looks at him.
GRACE: There's money. A lot. The words hang there, thick between them.
BOBBY: Jake hides it. In a safe. In the floor. In the bedroom. He counts it. He loves to sit there and count it.
GRACE: Jake hides it. In a safe. In the floor. In the bedroom. He counts it. He loves to sit there and count it.
BOBBY: What do you mean?
GRACE: At night. He just sits there and laughs and talks to himself and counts it. I heard him. My Mom told me he had a hunnert thousand dollars down there. Maybe more. Bobby's eyes widen in hope.
BOBBY: Oh yeah. There's nothing else with Jake. He don't trust banks. He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed. He loves it so much, he wouldn't think of spending any of it on me. I never seen it but I know he's got more than a hunnert thousand at One-hundred-thousand!? That son-of-a-bitch. What do you mean? If it's in a safe we'd have to get the It takes a key. He keeps it on himself all the time. I mean all the time. It scratches up against me when we do it.
GRACE: Oh yeah. There's nothing else with Jake. He don't trust banks. He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed. He loves it so much, he wouldn't think of spending any of it on me. I never seen it but I know he's got more than a hunnert thousand at One-hundred-thousand!? That son-of-a-bitch. What do you mean? If it's in a safe we'd have to get the It takes a key. He keeps it on himself all the time. I mean all the time. It scratches up against me when we do it.
BOBBY: One-hundred-thousand!? That son-of-a-bitch. What do you mean? If it's in a safe we'd have to get the It takes a key. He keeps it on himself all the time. I mean all the time. It scratches up against me when we do it.
GRACE: It takes a key. He keeps it on himself all the time. I mean all the time. It scratches up against me when we do it.
BOBBY: If the key's on him, how do we get the key?
GRACE: Kill him. Spoken almost innocently, it hangs there between them. A I can't kill, Grace. I can't kill anybody.
BOBBY: I can't kill, Grace. I can't kill anybody.
GRACE: It's not like he's a young man, Bobby. He's had time to live. It'd be quick. I mean, he wouldn't even have to feel it. ( seductively ) I mean, sometime in the middle of the night, when it's quiet.when he's asleep, you could just come up behind him when he's pounding on me and. Grace lays her hands on Bobby, starting to caress him. He bristles and freezes with fear and disgust.
BOBBY: Shit! Listen to you. Are you crazy, He abruptly pulls away.
BOBBY: Jesus Christ! I think this place is making me crazy. I was crazy to come back here and see you. I'm crazy for listening to anyone in this town, and I'd sure as hell be crazy if I spent another minute with you. Grace rises, covering her nakedness, shooting a hand to his face, like she did when she read his fortune.
GRACE: But it's in you, Bobby. I see it. I see Death. It's in your heart. Let it out for me. Let it out. He's mesmerized. Then:
GRACE: Do it for me, Bobby, you'll never regret it. I promise you. I'll do anything for you. Anything. Bobby pauses, terribly torn.
BOBBY: I.take me back to town. He turns away, towards the jeep. Grace has a tone of desperation in her voice.
GRACE: You need the money, Bobby. It's a lot more than $100,000. A lot more. How are you going to get out of here? You need the money. Whatever it takes, Bobby, remember? Bobby walks past the jeep, on his way back to town alone.
GRACE: Where you going? I'll give you the ride.Come back! Bobby? It's three miles. Bobby doesn't look back. Her eyes drift backwards into her Bobby?.Whatever it takes.
BOBBY: The screen burns a bright white.
BLIND MAN: It's the desert that makes you crazy. The loneliness out here. Nobody to talk to. People on the run. Trailer parks. White trash. I seen some peculiar things on a hot day. I seen a scorpion sting itself to death. It just keeps driving its tail into its body again and again. A little killer killing itself. Seen a coyote kill itself too. Just kept on biting and tearing at its own legs. Near tore one clean off before it bled to death. And what a white man'll do when it's freezing one moment, hot as hell the next. A man could get hisself killed just for rubbing shoulders with another ( smacking his lips ) kiss kissy kiss. Nice pussy y'see, see it coming. I don't know what it is about the desert. I figger it's sort of like putting a kettle of water over a fire. People is mostly water. We boil when it's hot. 'Cept when we boil the water's got no place to go. It just churns inside of us until we can cool off. If it's not too late. BOBBY is now revealed standing next to the blind man, and we realize the blind man has been talking to him all along. Bobby sips a Dr. Pepper as well.
BOBBY: You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
BLIND MAN: Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
BOBBY: That a fact? Bobby noticing now all the little NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS that the Blind Man keeps around him in a sort of inchoate stall.
BLIND MAN: I can see just fine. For example: You're a young man who thinks he's got someplace to be. A POLICE RADIO crackles, Bobby tensing.
BOBBY: Maybe I do.
BLIND MAN: Or maybe you just think you do. Just another small town. One guy chasing you. You go big town. Just gonna have four guys after you instead. Kiss kissy kiss. It gets down to one thing are you a human being or are you one of those hungry ghosts out there never satisfied with nothing? Cause you gotta remember you can run just as far as you can, but wherever you go, that's where you gonna be.
BOBBY: I think I've heard that before.
BLIND MAN: What do you want for free?
BOBBY: You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
BLIND MAN: Seems like I do but only cause end of the day we're all eyes in the same head. And everything is everything.
BOBBY: BLIND MAN BOBBY ( shakes his head )
BLIND MAN: .And everything is nothing too. Maybe one day I'll get to sit on a corner and spout wise.
BLIND MAN: Think you'll live that long? Bobby is clearly unnerved by this. Suddenly the blind man stands, pissed and powerful, sniffing the air with the police radio in it. As SHERIFF POTTER cruises by, glancing at Bobby shrinking. The car goes on up the street.
BLIND MAN: Cocksucker motherfucker! Cops. I hear you. Always sneaking around. Thinks I can't see him. Well he's right. Motherfucker. But that ain't mean I don't know what's going on around here. They're all cursed. Yes Who's cursed?
BOBBY: Who's cursed?
BLIND MAN: All them miners last century. Hungry ghosts, killed off all the Indians. Up at the mine. Earth ran red with blood, think I'm fooling around here. White sky was on fire. Grown men cried like babies. I saw a flash, then darkness descended upon me. They put me in the joint. Took my eyes. I cursed them. White people can't seem to stay away from Indians ( grabs his bandaged hand, smelling the blood ). You gotta watch where ya put your fingers. Pussy pussy pussy, Indian pussy. It sounds demented. Bobby, checking him out to see if he's really blind, walks quietly around him during this monologue and peeks over his glasses trying to see the blind man's real eyes. Although he thinks the Blind Man thinks he's on the other side of him, the Blind Man fools him by suddenly swivelling around and cranking a gob of spit into Bobby's face as if Bobby were on the other side. Bobby, pissed, wipes the spittle from his face. .but they gotta know you don't fuck around with Indians.
BOBBY: I thought you said you lost your eyes in the war?
BLIND MAN: So now you're going to tell me where I lost my eyes. You don't think I know where I lost my eyes? I was there when I lost them. I lost them in the war. The war in the joint. There's always wars in the joint. Cause I was a code talker in the joint and in the war too.( sniffs ) Mmmm, nothing like the smell of a naked lady. Be careful, boy.
BOBBY: Musta been some bad ass nuclear tests here in the 50's. This town's all inbreeding.
BLIND MAN: Well, people gotta get by somehow. That's the curse. The mines done it. All that uranium, plutonium, fuffonium, fuckononium, assononium, all that "om"! Everybody's got a mother. You don't rip up your mother. You don't rip up the Earth and take everything out. It's like the Cracker Jack box says, "the more you eat, the more you I got things to do. Oh well, go do 'em. You don't see me stopping you. Bobby starts to walk away. The Blind Man rattles his tin cup.
BOBBY: I got things to do. Oh well, go do 'em. You don't see me stopping you. Bobby starts to walk away. The Blind Man rattles his tin cup.
BLIND MAN: .But ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
BOBBY: I'm a little short Pops. I'll catch you next time.
BLIND MAN: Your lies are old, but you tell 'em well.
JENNY: Hey mister. Mister, I just. I just wanted to thank you.
BOBBY: For what?
JENNY: For defending my honor this afternoon.
BOBBY: I hate to bust your bubble honey, but I wasn't defending you.
JENNY: But you was going to fight for me.
BOBBY: I wasn't going to fight for you. I was just going to beat the shit out of your He's not my boyfriend. I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for. Not yet that is.
JENNY: He's not my boyfriend. I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for. Not yet that is.
BOBBY: Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you. If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him. You're not going to get much better in this town.
JENNY: That's what I thought until you came riding in. I saw your car over at the gas station. It's a cool car. Want to take me for a ride? Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
BOBBY: How old are you?
JENNY: ( beat ) Eighteen. Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
BOBBY: No, I don't want to take you for a ride. What I want is for . Hey, you don't think you can get $150 from your parents, could you? From OFF CAMERA we hear TOBY.
BOBBY: Oh, shit! Toby moves menacingly up the street towards Bobby.
TOBY: That's right, Mister. You better be afraid. I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen. Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
BOBBY: I wasn't sneaking around with your girl. Would you please tell him?
JENNY: You're too late, Toby. We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you What the hell are you talking about?
BOBBY: What the hell are you talking about?
JENNY: What's your name anyway?
TOBY: Oh, that tears it, Mister. I'm gonna bust you up but good. I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then . and then bust those pieces up, and then . and then spread them all around. That's what I'm gonna do. You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister. I'm crazy. I'm psycho crazy.
BOBBY: Yeah, I know. You're TNT. Just like dynamite. When you go off somebody gets hurt. ( at his wit's end ) All right. Let's do this.
JENNY: Toby Tucker, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
BOBBY: Will you shut up!
TOBY: You gonna pay for that, Mister. Toby and Bobby square off, sizing each other up and preparing for a violent confrontation. Just as the two are about to clash we hear the voice of SHERIFF POTTER from OFF CAMERA.
TOBY: Hey, Sheriff Potter. Toby, I just came from your mother's place. She's worried sick about you. She says she ain't seen you since this morning.
TOBY: That ain't true, Sheriff. I was home for Boy, I'm not trying to hear nothing from you except that you're heading home. Now run along.
SHERIFF: Boy, I'm not trying to hear nothing from you except that you're heading home. Now run along.
TOBY: Yes, sir. Come on, Jenny.
JENNY: I want to stay.
TOBY: I said come on! Toby grabs Jenny by the wrist and literally pulls he along. As she goes she yells back to Bobby.
JENNY: Bye, Mister. Don't go nowhere without me. I wanna have your love child. Toby points a vicious finger at Bobby.
TOBY: Next time, Mister. Next time. Toby and Jenny exit leaving Bobby and the Sheriff alone. Bobby would also like to exit fast.
SHERIFF: Where ya goin'?
BOBBY: Get in. Bobby has no choice. He gets in.
SHERIFF: Get in. Bobby has no choice. He gets in.
SHERIFF: Seen you popping up a little bit of everywhere today. You're not planning on staying are you?
BOBBY: No, sir. I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
SHERIFF: That's a nasty cut you got there.
BOBBY: Yeah, fell down and hit a rock. Not as bad as it looks.
SHERIFF: There was a young fellow over at Jamilla's today when it got hit. Way she tells it he got whacked around good by one of the Sounds like it. I wish I could help Sheriff, but I just want to get my car and get on up the road. JAKE drives up in his GOLD CADDY. His windows whirr down.
BOBBY: Sounds like it. I wish I could help Sheriff, but I just want to get my car and get on up the road. JAKE drives up in his GOLD CADDY. His windows whirr down.
JAKE: Everything all right, Virgil? He eyes Bobby. Just fine, Jake. Where you going?
JAKE: I was just up at Darrell's. How's the wife? That little eskimo baby walkin' yet?
SHERIFF: Oh just fine.
JAKE: You haven't seen Grace around, have you? I'm looking for her.
SHERIFF: No. But if I do, I'll tell her you're looking for her, Jake. Whatcha got there, some trash? He drives off. The Sheriff drives on.
SHERIFF: Peculiar, how things happen. A man's car breaks down. There's a hold up. People die and all that money and now old Jake out looking for his young wife. And then you show up. The Sheriff looks right through Bobby, who knows this is more than a conversation. He pulls up to Harlin's garage. Bobby gets Time's running out, son. I'll be seeing you in the morning. With this thinly veiled threat, the Sheriff drives on. As Bobby watches, feeling the pressure to get out now while he can.
SHERIFF: Time's running out, son. I'll be seeing you in the morning. With this thinly veiled threat, the Sheriff drives on. As Bobby watches, feeling the pressure to get out now while he can.
DARRELL: Hey there. I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back. You don't look so Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you You've been there?
BOBBY: Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you You've been there?
DARRELL: One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you You've been there?
BOBBY: You've been there?
DARRELL: Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog. Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
BOBBY: You believe that?
DARRELL: You think bad, and bad is what you get.
BOBBY: That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
DARRELL: No charge.
BOBBY: Listen, Darrell, about that hundred-fifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll
DARRELL: It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
BOBBY: It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
DARRELL: It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
BOBBY: You said this morning the hose was going to run me one-fifty.
DARRELL: Yep. For the hose. But while you was gone I replaced a gasket. That's going to run you another fifty.
BOBBY: I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
DARRELL: Yeah, but it was shot.
BOBBY: I don't give a fuck! I didn't tell you to do it! You can't just do unauthorized Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you? Didn't you read the sign.
DARRELL: Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you? Didn't you read the sign.
BOBBY: What sign?
DARRELL: The goddamn sign on the wall. I can't do unauthorized work? What am I suppose to do? Just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket. Then you get in an accident and get killed. Or worse. Who they gonna blame then? They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
BOBBY: What reputation? You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumbleweed hick.
DARRELL: Is that an insult? Are you insulting me.
BOBBY: Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
DARRELL: Listen to me you sorry sonufabitch. You owe me money, and this car ain't going nowheres until I get it. And if you take another five hours I'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on it. Is that clear? Now get out of here 'fore I call the Sheriff, who knows me. Bobby is in a rage. He turns to leave and walks a few paces. He sees a WRENCH lying on a table. For a second his mind reels, then he snatches up the wrench and turns ready to smash it down on Darrell's head. He stops cold. Because ol' Darrell holds a CROWBAR in a batter's stance ready to smash it onto the Mustang.
DARRELL: You want to play, Mister? I'll play with you. You want to smash something? So do
BOBBY: No! Okay! Okay!
DARRELL: What's the matter? The fight gone out of you? I'm just gonna smash a headlight. Maybe two. Please, just leave the car alone!
DARRELL: Mister, you already pissed me off but good. Darrell lays the tip of the crowbar on the hood of the car, and drags the tip of the bar across the hood leaving a long scratch. Goddamn you! You son of a bitch!
DARRELL: There you go, sweet talking me again. Darrell begins to laugh. Bobby, desperate, looks to the trunk, thinking of his gun in there. His POV the trunk. A FLASHBACK of the GUN goes through his Look, Harlin.
BOBBY: Look, Harlin.
DARRELL: Darrell. I'll get you your money. I just have to get something out of the trunk. Using his TRUNK KEY, he tries to open it but realizes the lock has been changed.
BOBBY: Darrell. I'll get you your money. I just have to get something out of the trunk. Using his TRUNK KEY, he tries to open it but realizes the lock has been changed.
BOBBY: What the fuck did you do to my trunk?
DARRELL: Well, that key's not gonna work. I had to pop the lock. You didn't leave me the trunk And you had to go into the trunk, didn't When I work on a car, I work on a car. You motherfucker! ( etc. )
BOBBY: And you had to go into the trunk, didn't When I work on a car, I work on a car. You motherfucker! ( etc. )
DARRELL: When I work on a car, I work on a car. You motherfucker! ( etc. )
DARRELL: You can't help yourself, can you mister? You're out of control. Darrell starts to laugh. It is a repetitive, almost demonic laugh that grows louder as the camera slowly dollies in on Bobby's anguished face.
BOBBY: I need a ticket.
CLERK: Where to?
BOBBY: Out of here.
CLERK: But, in particular?
BOBBY: I . Mexico. You got a bus that goes to Mexico? That's where I have to go.
CLERK: Mexico is a large country. Where in Mexico would you like
BOBBY: I don't care, just get me there. The clerk is a little put off by Bobby. He seems delirious. She goes through her schedule looking for a bus.
CLERK: How about Ciudad Juarez? You could take a local, arrives in two hours, and transfer in Albuquerque. It'll get you across the How much?
BOBBY: How much?
CLERK: One way, or round trip?
BOBBY: One way.
CLERK: 30.55. Twenty more will get you back. Bobby counts his money.
BOBBY: Twenty-seven, fifty. That's all I got.
CLERK: The ticket is 30.55. I bought a beer. That was a dollar something. Then I gave that girl 25 cents for the juke box. And the blind man.the soda.I..I'd have 30 if.if.
CLERK: I'm sorry, sir. It's $30.55 for the Yeah. Just a little short. Figures. I just wanted to get out, that's all. Bobby starts to walk away. Suddenly he turns, runs back at the clerk, proffers his money, half-crazed, near tears.
BOBBY: Please, ma'am, you don't understand! I to get out of here. They're going to come looking for me. They're going to kill me. If I can't get this ticket then I'm going to have to do things to get out of here. You know what I mean! I don't want to hurt anybody, I just want to leave. Please. I can't.I can't. He's so desperate and in her frightened but neutral expression, Bobby experiences the only compassion he ever finds in this whole town.
CLERK: Okay, I'll give you the ticket, sir, but.just.just, please calm down, her sane tone reminds Bobby of how far down he's come. He shrinks, suddenly ashamed of himself. She takes the cash on the counter, hands him a ticket.
CLERK: Keep your change. Bus three-twenty-three. Leaves at seven fifty two, tonight.
BOBBY: I'm sorry. It's just . you know . She nods, puts a "closed" sign in the ticket window, disappears.
BOBBY: Holy shit!
SERGEI: Got you, shitface! Bobby Cooper. Bobby EXT. MAIN STREET - SIMULTANEOUS BOBBY, ducking around a corner, hears the brief "Whoop" of the sheriff's POLICE SIREN. He glances back. His POV - sure enough, the SHERIFF'S having a field day. He's just pulled SERGEI over. At this distance, we catch snippets of conversation as the Sheriff ambles from his car, checking Sergei's out-of-state plates.
SHERIFF: Where's the fire sweetheart? Don't know how they work things in Nevada, but we got speed limits in this state.
SERGEI: Vat? I am going 5 miles an hour! I am looking town. I not even moving. We pop in closer to their conversation Bobby relishing this in his mind's eye. Sergei is constantly looking off to where he last saw Bobby. But the Sheriff, strangely, pays no attention to these looks.
SHERIFF: Whoa, what kind of accent you got there? You one of them Russians?
SERGEI: I am Russian, da! I am also da? Maybe we work something out, my friend What? You trying to bribe me, mister? Just cause you Russians ain't commies anymore, don't think money can buy everything. Down the street, Sheriff Potter is holding up a concealed GUN.
SHERIFF: What? You trying to bribe me, mister? Just cause you Russians ain't commies anymore, don't think money can buy everything. Down the street, Sheriff Potter is holding up a concealed GUN.
SHERIFF: What's that? ( He grabs the gun ) ."concealed" is a definite no no in this town, Ivan. You know anything about Jamilla's grocery store?
SERGEI: What fuckin grocery store, you fucking shithead idiot! You call yourself a Sergei looking Bobby's direction.
SHERIFF: Get out of the car, spread them. You can jawbone all you want or you have the right to shut the fuck up! You commie motherfucker. Either way you're goin' to the can.
SERGEI: I want my lawyer! Sheriff cuffs Sergei and sticks him in the police car. Bobby can't help smiling as he turns away to the SODA MACHINE seen in an earlier scene. He comes up with the change the bus clerk left him and, dying for a drink in this heat, inserts the coin. Though still under considerable pressure from all sides, this lucky break with Sergei seems like it might be the beginning of something new today some luck. The icy cold soda bottle shoots out. Bobby raises it to his lips, about to taste it, about to relax for once. Violently it explodes out of his hands as he doubles over in blinding pain from a KIDNEY PUNCH. He stumbles forward into the soda machine, gasping. The legs of his assailant are close to him, but the face is unseen. Bobby doubles his agony as his bandaged left stump takes the brunt of the blow into the machine, re-opening the wound. Blood starts to seep through the bandage.
BOBBY: Bobby crumples to the ground as TOBY now towers over him with his fists curled and a snarl on his lips.
TOBY: Get up, Mister! Don't ever let it be said Toby Tucker beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance. What the hell are you doing? You fucking I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended. I'm stompin' your ass.
TOBY: I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended. I'm stompin' your ass.
BOBBY: You idiot! You don't even know what you're fighting over!
TOBY: My honor, that's what I'm fighting over. Now get up off the ground, or do I have to whoop you where you lie? JENNY comes running up the street.
JENNY: Toby! Toby Tucker, leave him alone!
TOBY: You stay away, Jenny. I aim to mess him up, and that ain't a thing for a woman to Jenny runs to Bobby and cuddles him where he lays.
JENNY: Don't be afraid of him none. I don't care what he does to you, we can still be Get away from me! Bobby sees his bus ticket on the ground. He grabs for it, but Toby beats him to it.
BOBBY: Get away from me! Bobby sees his bus ticket on the ground. He grabs for it, but Toby beats him to it.
TOBY: Now, what's this?
BOBBY: Give it to me!
TOBY: Mexico? You going to Mexico?
BOBBY: I'm leaving. You never have to see me again. Just please, give me the ticket!
TOBY: This means something to you? Jenny means something to me. Toby sticks the ticket in his mouth and chews it up whole.
BOBBY: TOBY ( between bites )
JENNY: Stop it! You're killing him! Jenny grabs Bobby's arm, literally hanging all her weight on it, stopping him from striking Toby again.
JENNY: You're killing him! Toby!? Toby!? Jenny sinks to the ground and cuddles Toby. Bobby stands. He looks at Toby, then at his bloodied knuckles in disbelief. His bandage is soaked with his own blood, but his adrenaline numbs the pain.
JENNY: You killed him! You killed him! She wails in the background as he backs away, around the corner, into Main Street, crossing to where the PHONE BOOTH is.
BOBBY: Hello, Grace? It's Bobby.
BOBBY: I wanted to talk.
BOBBY: What about us?
GRACE: There is no us, remember?
BOBBY: Except I can't get you out of my head,
GRACE: Stop it.
GRACE: Because I know you're full of shit.
BOBBY: I mean it, Grace. I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
BOBBY: I could if I had Jake's money.
BOBBY: I don't give a damn about the money. I want you, and I want to get us out of this shithole. There's only one way to do that. Are you sure?. About me, I mean?
GRACE: Are you sure?. About me, I mean?
BOBBY: I came back for you; this morning I came back. Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want. The only reason I stormed off is because you spooked me talking about Jake. But I've had nothing but time to think about it. It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here. But we've got to get the money, baby. We get the money, I get the car, then we get the hell You said you couldn't kill anybody.
GRACE: You said you couldn't kill anybody.
BOBBY: We don't have to kill him. Just knock him out and tie him up 'till we get away. It was your idea, remember? I'm doing this for you. I'm doing this so you can fly.fly like a bird. Grace bites at a nail and fidgets, but says nothing.
GRACE: After dark. I'll leave the back door She quickly hangs up the phone. Bobby also hangs up the phone, an unreadable expression on his INT. MCKENNA LIVING ROOM - LATE DAY JAKE sits in an easy chair reading a paper. Puffs of smoke from his pipe rise from behind the paper and hang like a cloud over his head. GRACE stands in the doorway, body stiff and arms crossed, staring at him.
JAKE: Who was that on the phone?
GRACE: Wrong number.
JAKE: You spent a long time talking for a wrong number. But then you make friends so easily. Don't you, Grace? Grace has no answer for that, so she says nothing. A long moment passes, then:
GRACE: I put up new drapes, Jake.
JAKE: I know. I was here when your apprentice was helping you. Remember?
GRACE: You never said anything. About the drapes.
JAKE: They look nice.
GRACE: You haven't even looked at them once. Jake lowers the paper, looks at the drapes.
JAKE: They look nice.
GRACE: I picked them out for you, Jake. I thought you would like the colors. You look just like your mama when you move like that against the light. Grace stares at the CHAIN now visible around Jake's neck that disappears under his shirt. She knows that hidden there is a key, and she fixes on it intently.
JAKE: What the hell you looking at, girl?
GRACE: Nothing, Jake. Absolutely nothing.
BLIND MAN: Well, that's it. Sun's going down. People go home, trade stories over dinner. They'll talk about the day, about the heat, laugh about something crazy it made them do. They'll kiss, sleep a few hours, then do it all over again. BOBBY now appears next to the blind man holding two Dr. Peppers. He hands one to the blind man, takes a sip of the other one, and offers him his own change.
BOBBY: The day wasn't so bad. We all got through it all right. Keep it. There's a suggestion of cockiness in Bobby, feeling his luck coming back with the night. His humour is enhanced by his POV down the street: As DARRELL, with his dilapidated truck, readies SERGEI'S convertible for towing.
BOBBY: Difference between you and me, old man, is I see the glass half full, you see it half Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
BLIND MAN: Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
BOBBY: You afraid of the dark?
BLIND MAN: Afraid of it? Boy, I live in the dark. All cause of a woman who made me this way. People are afraid of what they can't see. I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me. Kiss from a beautiful woman, kissy kissy kiss, a lick from a dog, slurp, slurp, the kiss of death ( he makes a strange sound ). It's all the same to me.
BOBBY: So, we're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride. Is that it?
BLIND MAN: More or less.
BOBBY: Not this twig, friend. I got plans.
BLIND MAN: Nothing makes the Great Spirit laugh harder than a man's plans. We all got plans. I planned on seeing all my life. I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
BOBBY: No and I don't plan on sticking around Well, don't say I didn't warn you when things go your way.
BLIND MAN: Well, don't say I didn't warn you when things go your way.
BOBBY: You got a lotta philosophy in you, old timer but you don't fool me for one second with all this blind man crap. One minute you lost your eyes in Vietnam, next it's the joint. Now it's a woman? I'm hep to The Blind Man slowly lifts his glasses, showing his EYES at last. Where his eyes should be are scars and dead flesh. An ugly sight that even takes Bobby back a step.
BLIND MAN: Used to be a young smartass like you. Then I got smart with the wrong man's daughter. Got some acid poured on my peepers for my trouble. You know human beings ain't always just human they got animals living inside 'em too.People give spare change to war heroes not fools. All fools get is pity. May not have eyes, but I see. And you, boy? The Blind Man puts his glasses back on.
BLIND MAN: You got my pity. Hope she was worth it.
BLIND MAN: Oh, she was worth it. She was worth every black minute since. Bobby looks at his watch, gets ready to go, drops a coin into the Blind Man's cup.
BOBBY: Time's up. Any last words of wisdom?
BLIND MAN: Things ain't always the way they seem. You got to ask yourself: is it worth it? Day comes Earthmaker is going to look in your fucking heart! Then you better know what it is you're doing. Are you a human being or just one of them hungry ghosts out there floatin' around? Bobby walks away, smiling.
BOBBY: BLIND MAN
BLIND MAN: You know I won't be seeing you. The Blind Man lifts his sunglasses and peers into the cup as if he sees. We don't really know. He reaches into the cup and pulls out the coin Bobby tossed in.
BLIND MAN: Cheap bastard. Gives me back my own money. Well, Jesse, time's up, let's go for a walk. The Blind Man now stands up and pulls the seeing-eye dog's harness. The DOG struggles to its feet and they walk off down the street together.
JAKE: Ya little bitch, you like it don't you! You like it this way rough and hard. Gotta go fuck around on me, like your Mama, but you always gotta come home to Daddy, don't you, cause you know Daddy's the best.
GRACE: Yes, yes, hit me.beat me, please.
JAKE: You been a bad girl, Grace. You took my heart from your Mama, didn't ya? You betrayed her! Like you did me. There ain't no forgivin' ya, girl!
GRACE: Oh no! Oh please forgive me, Papa!
JAKE: You broke her heart! You broke your Mama's heart. You stole me! That's right. Fuck it away. But it ain't ever goin' away, cause your Mama she's like a hungry ghost baby, she won't go away, she won't leave ya No! No! Please! He hits her. Harder. In a strange flashback of his mind, he now sees Grace's MAMA beneath him, receiving his punishment. He stops, abruptly. He can't go on. Fear coming into his eyes. He starts to whimper, begging for his punishment and/or Oh baby, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you so bad. It just.got away. He drops down, burying his face between Grace's legs.
GRACE: No! No! Please! He hits her. Harder. In a strange flashback of his mind, he now sees Grace's MAMA beneath him, receiving his punishment. He stops, abruptly. He can't go on. Fear coming into his eyes. He starts to whimper, begging for his punishment and/or Oh baby, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you so bad. It just.got away. He drops down, burying his face between Grace's legs.
JAKE: Oh baby, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you so bad. It just.got away. He drops down, burying his face between Grace's legs.
JAKE: Forgive me, baby, forgive me! He hides there from the world that he has created, crying to Grace has an unreadable expression, but that's certainly not a new occurrence in their strange relationship.
GRACE: What's the matter?
JAKE: You didn't hear something?
GRACE: Yeah, I heard a key slapping against my There's someone in the house. Maybe.maybe the wind blew something over ( encouraging him to continue ). Come on baby, keep going. Jake climbs out of bed, throwing on some pants, reaching into a drawer in the chest of clothes, pulling out a small dark metallic OBJECT. What's that? Jake where's you get that?
JAKE: There's someone in the house. Maybe.maybe the wind blew something over ( encouraging him to continue ). Come on baby, keep going. Jake climbs out of bed, throwing on some pants, reaching into a drawer in the chest of clothes, pulling out a small dark metallic OBJECT. What's that? Jake where's you get that?
JAKE: Relax baby. Stay here. He goes to the door. She follows, tries to block the door.
GRACE: Jake, don't go out there. Call the sheriff.
JAKE: Shhhh! Just like your Mama, always scared of things. He maneuvers her aside and slips out the door into the corridor.
JAKE: Well, well. As I live and breathe. I didn't expect to be seeing the like of you again. Thought you'd be long on your way by now. Jake continues to press the gun to Bobby's head.
BOBBY: That's my gun.( then ) That fucking I like Darrell. He may be an idiot, but he's my half brother. We own Harlin's together, yeah, that little redneck manages to get paid no matter how things work out. You been workin' me the whole time.
JAKE: I like Darrell. He may be an idiot, but he's my half brother. We own Harlin's together, yeah, that little redneck manages to get paid no matter how things work out. You been workin' me the whole time.
JAKE: I guess this is what they call "ironee"? It's not what you think, Jake.
BOBBY: It's not what you think, Jake.
JAKE: No, but it don't matter anyway when you're lying there with your brains all over my carpet and I'm telling Sheriff Potter about this drifter, didn't have enough money to fix his car. And Darrell happened to find his gun, and through maybe this drifter heard old Jake got some money stashed away, and figgered he might try to break in and steal it!
BOBBY: Wait a minute. Just listen to me.
JAKE: .And he thought he'd clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper.and then maybe borrow $200 or $20,000, or $200,000. That's not the reason I'm here, Jake.
JAKE: There's another reason? It better be good.
JAKE: That's a thick change of heart from this Maybe I don't like being played, like she played us today. Maybe I don't like that at all, Jake. I'm just pissed enough, maybe I'll rip the neck off my own grandmother.
BOBBY: Maybe I don't like being played, like she played us today. Maybe I don't like that at all, Jake. I'm just pissed enough, maybe I'll rip the neck off my own grandmother.
JAKE: You have a lot of talk in you, whole lot of Damn it, Jake. There is a guy coming to kill me, and if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace. You were going to give me thirteen-thousand. Give me two-hundred. I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. She showed me the perfect place. There won't be enough left for an autopsy. But I need the the money. I've got to have the money. Jake is silent. He takes his time thinking. Finally:
BOBBY: Damn it, Jake. There is a guy coming to kill me, and if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace. You were going to give me thirteen-thousand. Give me two-hundred. I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. She showed me the perfect place. There won't be enough left for an autopsy. But I need the the money. I've got to have the money. Jake is silent. He takes his time thinking. Finally:
JAKE: She's in the bedroom.
BOBBY: Wanna give me my gun? Jake laughs, a "don't even think about it" look.
JAKE: A strangling'll do just fine. Go to work. Bobby holds up his eight fingers with a "you try" look. Jake shrugs. Bobby points to the crowbar on the carpet.
BOBBY: How 'bout the pipe? She's got a slender neck. Bobby turns and walks towards the bedroom. Jake follows into an adjoining room.
JAKE: Hold on a second! Come here! Bobby turns to Jake, who is suddenly extremely upset.
JAKE: How the hell did you know where the bedroom's at?
BOBBY: What are you talking about! This morning when I came in on you and Grace, you swore you hadn't been near the bedroom. Now you make straight for it.
JAKE: .Or did you just ply the afternoon away between my sheets putting your lips all over her, you little horndog. What difference does it make if I slept with her? We're gonna kill her.
JAKE: You're right! I don't give a damn about her. But killing her's one thing. Fucking her behind my back, that's another! Suddenly Jake swings his arm, clipping Bobby across the side of the head with the pistol and opening another bloody gash. Bobby crumbles to his knees, crying out. Jake suddenly grabs Bobby by the hair, forcing his face back and smearing his lips with his own in a vengeful kiss. The blood from Bobby's wound runs down to his lips and mixes with Jake's He pulls back the hammer on the gun and levels it at Bobby's head. Bobby sees it coming, plays his last card on his knees.
JAKE: He pulls back the hammer on the gun and levels it at Bobby's head. Bobby sees it coming, plays his last card on his knees.
BOBBY: O.K.! I admit it! I fucked her! But it's her you have to worry about, not me! She wants you dead, Jake. She wants you dead and she wants your money. What are you babbling about? Think about it! How do you think I got in here? Did you hear any glass break? Did you hear a door splinter?
JAKE: You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
BOBBY: You know what kind of woman Grace is, Jake. You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Superior. What's she to you, Jake; a woman who wants you dead? Let me kill her. All I want is two-hundred dollars to get out of here with.
JAKE: Two-hundred dollars?
BOBBY: Two-hundred dollars.I'll do it! I'll kill her! A beat. Jake stares down at Bobby on the floor.
JAKE: Sweet Christ, I'd be doing the world a favor, ridding it of the likes of you. Get your miserable ass off the floor. You're positively pathetic. Go on, go kill Bobby slowly stands.
JAKE: I'm not letting you walk for nothing. Two hundred dollars. Do it, boy. Kill her. Bobby goes.
GRACE: It is a desperate cry for help. Jake can't help himself. He breaks into a roaring run down the hall to save his beloved.
JAKE: INT. BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS JAKE bulls into the bedroom. It's a mess, furniture overturned, sheets and blankets all over the floor. The lights broken. Waiting for him, face down on the floor, is BOBBY'S BODY in a pool of liquid. A broken bottle lies nearby. Bobby's body heaves in its final death throes, and then shudders quiet. Over there, by the bed, is GRACE, who still clutches the HATCHET. The look on her face is pure shock.
JAKE: Well.looks like you got him, Grace. That's good.that's real good. He must of slipped past me, but you got him. Looks like that drifter from this morning. Got to be careful who you make friends with, Jake eyes the weapon in Grace's hand.
JAKE: Why don't you put that down? It's all over now. Put it down. Grace eyes the gun in Jake's hand.
JAKE: Go on, girl. Put it down. What choice does Grace have? She lets the hatchet clank to the Aww, that's my Grace: Not about to let someone get the best of her. That's what I love about you. As dangerous as you are behind Jake, the lifeless BOBBY rises up from the floor, very much alive, and clobbers Jake with a golf club. Jake is staggered, but he's one tough old customer as he manages to spin slowly, gun still in one hand, as if to fire. Before he can, Grace grabs up the hatchet from the floor and drives it straight into his back. He gurgles, stunned from both sides, but it's like trying to kill Rasputin. He still has the gun as Bobby jumps him from the rear, trying to get his neck in a chokehold. The gun FIRES once, discharging into the wall. The hatchet is ripped from his back. Grace watches as the two men bang into the walls in a rugged rodeo-type fight, Jake seeking to dislodge Bobby off his back. An expression of fear and excitement in her eyes. Finally the two men go crashing to the ground, rolling around, Bobby maintaining his stranglehold, but calling to her, his hands full.
JAKE: Aww, that's my Grace: Not about to let someone get the best of her. That's what I love about you. As dangerous as you are behind Jake, the lifeless BOBBY rises up from the floor, very much alive, and clobbers Jake with a golf club. Jake is staggered, but he's one tough old customer as he manages to spin slowly, gun still in one hand, as if to fire. Before he can, Grace grabs up the hatchet from the floor and drives it straight into his back. He gurgles, stunned from both sides, but it's like trying to kill Rasputin. He still has the gun as Bobby jumps him from the rear, trying to get his neck in a chokehold. The gun FIRES once, discharging into the wall. The hatchet is ripped from his back. Grace watches as the two men bang into the walls in a rugged rodeo-type fight, Jake seeking to dislodge Bobby off his back. An expression of fear and excitement in her eyes. Finally the two men go crashing to the ground, rolling around, Bobby maintaining his stranglehold, but calling to her, his hands full.
BOBBY: Grace, goddamit, do something! Jake's eyes rolls up at her like a beaching whale, pleading for She commits. Jumping into the fray, it's not clear whose side she's really on as the three of them roll across the floor, strangling, biting, hitting, spitting, scratching, gasping. It's a Guignol, but the pressure from Bobby's forearm is taking its toll on Jake. Trying to bite Jake, Grace bites Bobby instead, but then she scratches Jake's face. Jake is grabbing her hard as Bobby chokes him, trying to use her to leverage himself away. But she manages to rip herself from his grip and scrambles on her knees across the floor. She grabs the hatchet. And stands, moving back towards the two men locked on the floor. Bobby looks up at her, hatchet in hand, no longer sure which way she'll go. Jake, however, gasping for air, eyes bulging, spittle dripping from his mouth, looks at Grace with some inner certainty that she will help him. He gasps the words.
JAKE: She commits. Jumping into the fray, it's not clear whose side she's really on as the three of them roll across the floor, strangling, biting, hitting, spitting, scratching, gasping. It's a Guignol, but the pressure from Bobby's forearm is taking its toll on Jake. Trying to bite Jake, Grace bites Bobby instead, but then she scratches Jake's face. Jake is grabbing her hard as Bobby chokes him, trying to use her to leverage himself away. But she manages to rip herself from his grip and scrambles on her knees across the floor. She grabs the hatchet. And stands, moving back towards the two men locked on the floor. Bobby looks up at her, hatchet in hand, no longer sure which way she'll go. Jake, however, gasping for air, eyes bulging, spittle dripping from his mouth, looks at Grace with some inner certainty that she will help him. He gasps the words.
JAKE: Help me, Grace, help.
GRACE: Like you helped her, Jake? Grace stands there, deciding, the power of the hatchet in her hands. She raises it suddenly over the two men. It flashes downwards. Deep into the gut of her husband Jake, almost transfixing him to the floor. In the silence that follows, Jake's eyes roll up to meet hers. But all she has for him is a cold, distant stare. Jake's head drops as the life rushes out of him. Bobby falls back from the body puffing and dripping with sweat.
BOBBY: What the hell'd you wait for? She doesn't answer, turbulence in her face. He rolls Jake's body off, upset. She may have made it a murder, but he was part of it, and he feels the shift in himself. They're both in new territory, feeling an apartness between them. Suddenly JAKE gasps, still alive! It is too much for Bobby. He grabs the hatchet and plunges it down on Jake, silencing him one last time. Grace is pushing the bed away from the wall, slipping down on her knees and prying open several floorboards.
GRACE: The money's right here! Get the key!
BOBBY: No! You get it! He doesn't want to get close to Jake. Grace coldly runs over to his corpse, ripping the chain, key and all, from the neck. The action pulls Jake's head up, then she lets it thump back on the floor. She runs back to the floorboards. The top of a thick steel floor safe is revealed. Bobby watches his whole life, it seems, hanging on the With the key, she opens the safe. Inside are rolled-up bundles of cash in hundred dollar denominations. She looks up at him, offering it as she reaches in for more. Bobby also gets down on his hands and knees and grabs more and more, sucked into the fever of freedom, far more money than he lost at the grocery store, overcome now with emotions of fear and freedom. They see each other.
GRACE: Didn't I tell you? There must be 150, 200 thousand here! Goddamnit Grace, you were right!
GRACE: We done it, Bobby. Oh my God! They laugh excitedly and start kissing, rolling in the stacks of cash, some of which sticks to Bobby's sweating back. The day didn't turn out so bad after all for Bobby.
GRACE: Fuck me baby! What about him?
GRACE: Let him watch. I want him to know what he's As they consummate their violent relationship for the first time, Jake's lifeless eyes watch them.
BOBBY: Open up!
DARRELL: What the hell . oh, it's you. Might've figgered. Listen I got a waitress coming over. What do you want?
BOBBY: I want my car.
DARRELL: You got the money? Bobby pulls the money from his hip pocket and hands it to Darrell. The mechanic fingers it suspiciously.
DARRELL: Two-hundred dollars in hundred-dollar bills. And this morning you was broke.
BOBBY: That's none of your business. Get the keys.
DARRELL: I don't want no dirty money. I run an honest business.
BOBBY: Yeah, like Al Capone on tax day. Get the keys? Well, there's a $50 overnight storage charge we got to talk about. Bobby is ready at first to explode, but then just laughs out loud. You got to give it to a guy like Darrell. He holds up a $100 bill.
BOBBY: All I got's a hundred, Darrell. You got change?
DARRELL: Figgers. There's a scratch on the hood and how much you make selling my gun? Deduct it. Bobby pulls the hundred back from Darrell's grasp. Don't know nothing about no gun.
BOBBY: Figgers. There's a scratch on the hood and how much you make selling my gun? Deduct it. Bobby pulls the hundred back from Darrell's grasp. Don't know nothing about no gun.
BOBBY: Course you don't. Tell me something Darrell. Forty thousand people die every day! How come none of them are you? I think you know where to find her.
BOBBY: And the trunk key. Topped off the tank for you. No charge. Just my way of doing business. Listen up good, Darrell. I'm getting outta this shithole. You're staying! And one little peep outta you remember that gun makes you part of the food chain. Your prints are all over it. I'd be awful careful whose rectum I was pointing my finger in, Darrell. Bobby hops in the car, a free man. As Darrell glares at him, bewildered and frightened at the same time.
GRACE: Bobby? What the hell's the matter with I . nothing. I just stubbed my toe on a rock. Hurt like hell.
BOBBY: I . nothing. I just stubbed my toe on a rock. Hurt like hell.
GRACE: I got the money all packed. I put the jeep and his caddy in the garage. People'll think maybe me and Jake went away. Buy us some time.I know a back road we can take.
BOBBY: Good thinking. ( looking at her four bags ) What's all this?
GRACE: I'm not coming back. Awright, let's go. I want to be fifty miles from here before the sun comes up.
GRACE: Funny thing; the jeep wouldn't start. I had to push it. Funny thing. I'll get the bags.
BOBBY: I can't see it.
GRACE: It should be just up ahead. Hold on . there! There it is! A SIGN illuminated by the HEADLIGHTS. It reads: YOU ARE
GRACE: Oh, God! I can't believe it. I'm out. I'm finally out! The MUSTANG begins to swerve along the road.
BOBBY: Hey! Take it easy. Want to get us killed?
GRACE: You don't know what it feels like to be free of that place.
BOBBY: I don't know about that?
GRACE: You spent a day in Superior. I wasted my entire life there. I feel like someone just took a million pounds off my shoulders.
BOBBY: We've still got some dead weight to get rid of.
GRACE: Can't we just dump him fast someplace?
BOBBY: I want a place where only the vultures will find him.( then ) It'll be over soon, Then will you take me on your friends' boat with you?
GRACE: Then will you take me on your friends' boat with you?
BOBBY: I'm not sailing his boat.
GRACE: But I thought
BOBBY: We're going to buy a boat of our own baby, and sail it wherever we want to go.
GRACE: What the hell? Why not? Where should we go?
BOBBY: What the hell? Why not? Where should we go?
GRACE: Hawaii. I've read all about it. I've dreamed of going there and just lying on the beach while the water licked up against my feet. Oh, God. I'd kill to go there.
BOBBY: You already have. She gives him a funny look.
BOBBY: You know I thought you'd left me back What are you talking about? When I got back from the garage, and your jeep wasn't there, I thought you'd gone and left me and taken the money. .Cause I never had any luck with women, Grace. You don't know what I been through. The shit I've taken. I thought you were like the rest of 'em. but when you came out of the house. well you're here Grace and we might be starting in the shit but we're starting where I never been together with someone together with you She responds with a luminous smile.
GRACE: What are you talking about? When I got back from the garage, and your jeep wasn't there, I thought you'd gone and left me and taken the money. .Cause I never had any luck with women, Grace. You don't know what I been through. The shit I've taken. I thought you were like the rest of 'em. but when you came out of the house. well you're here Grace and we might be starting in the shit but we're starting where I never been together with someone together with you She responds with a luminous smile.
GRACE: I love you Bobby. He looks back at her with trust and love in his eyes.
BOBBY: We're gonna pull this off, Grace. Just then a HEADLIGHT rakes them from the rear as we hear, again, the ominous crackle of a POLICE RADIO and the short brutal "Whoop" of the siren, as Sheriff Potter's VEHICLE rolls up quickly behind them. Grace's face is caught like a surprised deer in the headlamps.
GRACE: Oh, my God! Don't stop! Bobby is in a bind. The siren whoops again. The lights flash to He must've seen us swerving on the road, that's all, just gonna give us a ticket for But even Bobby has trouble believing that as the POLICE VEHICLE pulls out sharply alongside his and SHERIFF POTTER motions to him aggressively to pull over on the shoulder. Pull over, goddamnit, pull over!
BOBBY: He must've seen us swerving on the road, that's all, just gonna give us a ticket for But even Bobby has trouble believing that as the POLICE VEHICLE pulls out sharply alongside his and SHERIFF POTTER motions to him aggressively to pull over on the shoulder. Pull over, goddamnit, pull over!
GRACE: Keep going! She seems to be panicking. Bobby pulls over.
BOBBY: Fuck this!.Just shut up, Grace. We done nothing! Be cool. Let me do the talking. He doesn't know anything. His vehicle pulled up on the shoulder in front of them, the Sheriff gets out, shining his power flashlight into their faces. 'Evening Sheriff, sorry bout that but this Bobby has no time to react as the Sheriff is suddenly there at his window, jerking his door open, angry. A GUN in his hand, pointed at them, his eyes on Grace.
SHERIFF: You had to I would never do that to you, baby. He killed Jake said he'd kill me if I didn't come with him. All he wants is the Bobby looks at her. He cannot believe what he just heard.
BOBBY: SHERIFF ( flipping, yelling )
GRACE: OK.but he never made me cum! Really Virgil, I was only doing what I had to do so we could be free. Just like we talked about. It meant nothing. A pause. Virgil wants to kill her, but he also wants her back You fucking him too Grace? Is everybody fucking everybody in this town? She ignores him. Her attention on the backpack with the money between her legs the gun is there, inside an outer flap of the bag.
BOBBY: You fucking him too Grace? Is everybody fucking everybody in this town? She ignores him. Her attention on the backpack with the money between her legs the gun is there, inside an outer flap of the bag.
SHERIFF: You fuck this guy get him to do your dirty work and you think you can take the money and dump me?
GRACE: No baby, you got it wrong.
SHERIFF: This road don't go to Globe, Grace where were you going to meet me? His flashlight on the four suitcases in the backseat. She doesn't have an answer to that one.
GRACE: It's not like that it. Look, Virgil, I got the money here. She gets out of the car on her side, comes around to him, the pack of money slung on her shoulder, hard to see in the dark. Oh Grace, you can say what you want.but, I watched you fuck that pervert for years while you're telling me you loved me? What happened to going to Milwaukee together? You and me gonna open up the finest sporting goods store that city ever did see? Get us a place on the north shore, by the lake? Season Brewer tickets! Just you and me, Grace. What happened?
GRACE: All talk, that's all you did was talk, and all I did was sit around getting older waiting for you to free me! You never did nothin' Virgil, you're weak! ( pointing to Bobby ) He did! The Sheriff, deeply wounded, casts a hot vicious gaze on Bobby.
SHERIFF: This is some girl you and me got here Bobby, yessir, an excellent cocksuck too, wouldn't you say? ( back at Grace ). Course you had a lotta practice haven't you darling, going way back to your crazy mama! Shut up, Virgil! Take your share of the money. It's not so bad.
SHERIFF: I don't want the fuckin' money! I'm not gonna give up everything I got for a lousy 50,000 dollars. It's you. You Grace or nothing. The whole thing. I want you to be my wife.( hopeful ). What do you way You sound just like Jake. I did see into the future, Virgil, but you weren't in it. Go back to your family. They love you. Bobby gets out of the car, misunderstanding the situation. Look, we got more. We got $200,000 at least. Split it three ways, we all walk The Sheriff snaps and smashes Bobby with his flashlight, knocking him to the ground, kicking him again and again, gathering the psychic force to murder him. Grace tries to Shut up, boy! You don't know shit round here! ( to Grace ) Get back. Did she tell you that story about the bird flying away? Ow! Look, I . ow!
GRACE: You sound just like Jake. I did see into the future, Virgil, but you weren't in it. Go back to your family. They love you. Bobby gets out of the car, misunderstanding the situation. Look, we got more. We got $200,000 at least. Split it three ways, we all walk The Sheriff snaps and smashes Bobby with his flashlight, knocking him to the ground, kicking him again and again, gathering the psychic force to murder him. Grace tries to Shut up, boy! You don't know shit round here! ( to Grace ) Get back. Did she tell you that story about the bird flying away? Ow! Look, I . ow!
SHERIFF: Shut up, boy! You don't know shit round here! ( to Grace ) Get back. Did she tell you that story about the bird flying away? Ow! Look, I . ow!
GRACE: Stop! Stop it! Were you going to help her fly away, asshole? What'd you think, you were the first boy to drift through this town she came on to? She tell you the story about old Jake forcing her to marry him? That's a good story. How he killed her crazy Mama? Bobby in bloody agony. Grace stunned that Virgil would reveal this now publicly.
GRACE: Goddamnit Virgil, stop! Don't!
SHERIFF: .But I bet the story she was the best story of all. How old crazy Jake was really her Papa. And she liked fucking Papa! And now she's killed the sonufabitch! Just like she's gonna kill Grace plunges into the pack, pulls the gun and shoots Virgil across the car in the gut.
GRACE: No.you! You! The Sheriff flies back onto the road, stunned, not realizing what's happened. Bobby watches unbelieving as Grace quietly steps up over the She puts the next round in his nuts, a modern fury enacting ancient wrath.
BOBBY: Grace. No! The Sheriff is wide-eyed, dying in shock. Grace then fires right at his head in a coup de grace that blows his brains out the back of his head. Grace and Bobby both stare, then Grace jumps into action, dragging the body. She snaps to Bobby.
GRACE: Help me get him off the road. Into the car! We'll ditch his car. Get the fuck up! Bobby stares at her.
GRACE: Get real Bobby. He was gonna kill you He was in love with you Grace. He would've done what you wanted, you could've made a deal and .
BOBBY: He was in love with you Grace. He would've done what you wanted, you could've made a deal and .
GRACE: The only deal he had in mind was killing you for Jake's murder and blackmailing me into sucking his dick for the rest of my life. no thanks.
BOBBY: He was a looking for you when you kill a cop.
GRACE: He was a scumbag!. He wanted These guys don't let go! Even when they're dead. ( softer ) You don't know what it was like, Bobby. Those two, they were the same. A silence. The oncoming road.
GRACE: So, aren't you going to ask me?
BOBBY: Ask you what? You mean what kind of horrifying sick shit is coming next?
GRACE: Don't you want to know.? I bet it's burning a hole in your brain just now?
BOBBY: Let it go, baby. It's the past. I got a Don't you really want to know? Was Jake my Daddy? Was I fucking my own Daddy? Don't you want to know that? What do you want me to say! She's yelling, emotionally out of control.
GRACE: Don't you really want to know? Was Jake my Daddy? Was I fucking my own Daddy? Don't you want to know that? What do you want me to say! She's yelling, emotionally out of control.
GRACE: Yes! I was! I was fucking Daddy! And I married him!. I married him.okay? She looks at Bobby, forces him to look at her. Finally:
BOBBY: She drops back in her seat. Tears come.
GRACE: She drops back in her seat. Tears come.
GRACE: All I wanted was to be a kid. He took that from me. They all did. ( very quietly, dangerously ) They treated me like meat. A piece of meat. Fuck me. Blow me. Bend over. Stick their fingers up my ass. Fuck them! Fuck the whole town! They deserved to die! A pause.
BOBBY: And us Grace? What do we deserve? "Nin chonk, nin chonk," my Mama used to say in Apache. "Your worst is doing this to you," she said, "your worst has killed you." And "Be go tsee" "you will find out the result of what you have done." Just when you think it's over, when you've gotten away, it begins. Cause you never get Bobby stares straight ahead at the oncoming road. Can he still love her? She seems to be reading his thoughts, like she said she could.
GRACE: It's easy to judge someone else when you don't know nothing about it. I'm Apache, Bobby. You don't eat what I eat. You don't see what I see. Don't judge me. A silence. Two former lovers in the dark of a car moving through the strangeness of an Arizona desert at night.
BOBBY: I don't want to think anymore. Then drive. The lights of the car fade until there is nothing but darkness.
GRACE: See ya, Virgil. God bless. Bobby pushes him over, his hand hurting. The body crashes below. It's hard work. They head back for the Mustang, to retrieve JAKE'S body in the popped trunk. But Grace notices Bobby glancing at the Baretta now tucked in her waist. The silence is tense between them, the rocks and gravel crunching under their shoes as they walk. Is this what's bothering you Bobby?
BOBBY: No Grace, my hand's bothering me.
GRACE: You think now that Jake's dead, there's all that money there and I don't need you anymore, and I might just sneak up behind you sometime and.pop! She pulls an imaginary trigger on Bobby, mimicking the recoil of a gun. Bobby is nervous.
GRACE: Don't you think I would've done it if I wanted to? What can I do to make you relax, baby?
BOBBY: You could give me my gun back. Grace smiles.
GRACE: Why don't we just finish what we started. She stares down at Jake. She can't help feeling some old feelings. As Bobby walks back to the front of the car, turns off the annoying radio. He watches as she softly prays over Jake, whose face is concealed by the blanket in which he is rolled. What do you think happens to someone's spirit when they die?
BOBBY: I think nothing happens. You're dead meat. That's it.
GRACE: You don't believe in anything do you, I believe in this moment, that's all. There is nothing else. Come on. He must weigh 300 pounds. Grace leans into the trunk to take his boots when he makes his move, quickly, closing on her when she's off guard. He slams her hard in the face, coldly sending her sprawling to the ground, He steps over her and grabs the gun in her waist, checks it. She puts her hand to her mouth, feels the blood on her finger tips. She looks at him and laughs a wild crazed laugh that cuts into Bobby like a knife.
BOBBY: I believe in this moment, that's all. There is nothing else. Come on. He must weigh 300 pounds. Grace leans into the trunk to take his boots when he makes his move, quickly, closing on her when she's off guard. He slams her hard in the face, coldly sending her sprawling to the ground, He steps over her and grabs the gun in her waist, checks it. She puts her hand to her mouth, feels the blood on her finger tips. She looks at him and laughs a wild crazed laugh that cuts into Bobby like a knife.
GRACE: You hit me, Bobby? You hit a woman, you motherfucker! Didn't your Momma ever teach you anything.? Her eyes go to the gun in his hand and she stops laughing. Her calm is extraordinary, as if expecting to die.
GRACE: For a moment, Bobby does nothing, then he slips the gun through his belt.
BOBBY: Well, nothing. We dump Jake, we split the money, then you're on your own.
GRACE: Don't leave me. I want to say with you, Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again?
BOBBY: Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again?
GRACE: I was just baiting him! Bobby, I had to tell him that to get his guard down. Just like you told Jake you was going to kill You lied to me all along! Lies, all lies. Your mother, your father, what story are you on now? How come the town didn't know you was his daughter? Cause my Mom slept around. A lotta men! Anybody could've been my father. But we Well you got what you wanted all along by fucking me. I wish you had told me the goddamn truth in the first place! I didn't want you to know! Don't you. Bobby's got a headache now. It's too much to understand, too much talk. Too much history has taught him to doubt.
BOBBY: You lied to me all along! Lies, all lies. Your mother, your father, what story are you on now? How come the town didn't know you was his daughter? Cause my Mom slept around. A lotta men! Anybody could've been my father. But we Well you got what you wanted all along by fucking me. I wish you had told me the goddamn truth in the first place! I didn't want you to know! Don't you. Bobby's got a headache now. It's too much to understand, too much talk. Too much history has taught him to doubt.
BOBBY: When you're finished with me, I'm next! I been there, baby. I been there with other cunts.sorry, not anymore. I'll take you as far as California. If we can make that. After that you're on your own. Try Mexico. With all this bread, you can live like a I don't want to go to Mexico, Bobby! Please, I really want to be with you. Don't blow this. Don't you think I care about I think you're a lying, back-stabbing psycho bitch, and one day you'll kill me. But it's nice to know you cared. The expression on Grace's face changes as rapidly as the desert weather, a coldness passing over and through her.
GRACE: I don't want to go to Mexico, Bobby! Please, I really want to be with you. Don't blow this. Don't you think I care about I think you're a lying, back-stabbing psycho bitch, and one day you'll kill me. But it's nice to know you cared. The expression on Grace's face changes as rapidly as the desert weather, a coldness passing over and through her.
BOBBY: I think you're a lying, back-stabbing psycho bitch, and one day you'll kill me. But it's nice to know you cared. The expression on Grace's face changes as rapidly as the desert weather, a coldness passing over and through her.
GRACE: You don't know your own mind. It blocks your heart. Keeping a wary eye on Grace, Bobby starts hauling Jake out of the trunk.
BOBBY: Give me a hand. He wrestles Jake up to a sitting position. He grabs a can of beer from a warm six-pack in the trunk and shoves it into a pocket of Jake's coat.
BOBBY: Poor old Jake, a few drinks, a fight with the sheriff over his wife. And both of 'em ended up dead. Grace takes his boots.
BOBBY: Time to go for a walk, Jake.
GRACE: My mother died in this canyon.
BOBBY: Save the Mom routine, will ya Grace. It doesn't work with me. One, two, three. They lift the corpse, and with great effort, haul it towards the edge of the drop. As they pause on the way, Bobby, wary of Grace's strange coldness, tries to soften the blow of Look, it's not so bad we split up. It might be months before they find these guys. If at all. I mean with the mountain lions around here. Remember, if they can't find no bodies, there's no crime. ( She doesn't respond. ) We'll be in Phoenix by noon. Lose this car, get another one. Texas, Mexico are big countries, all that money Grace, you'll meet someone else, you know, there's a lot of hope with a $100,000. They lift Jake again, and move to the edge.
BOBBY: Look, it's not so bad we split up. It might be months before they find these guys. If at all. I mean with the mountain lions around here. Remember, if they can't find no bodies, there's no crime. ( She doesn't respond. ) We'll be in Phoenix by noon. Lose this car, get another one. Texas, Mexico are big countries, all that money Grace, you'll meet someone else, you know, there's a lot of hope with a $100,000. They lift Jake again, and move to the edge.
GRACE: Hope is a four-letter word.
BOBBY: But we all need that too. Hold him. He props Jake at the edge, standing, and transfers the weight onto Grace. Jake's head is on her shoulder.
BOBBY: You make a pretty couple. It seems he might push them both over but instead takes the gun, wipes it of his prints, and slips it through Jake's belt.
BOBBY: Won this in a poker game in Reno. God knows who it's registered to. You shoulda been more careful, Jake. See you later. As he takes Jake's weight off Grace and pushes it over the drop. Grace watches him go, her eyes shifting to Bobby, his back momentarily to her, also watching. She moves towards him. Bobby turns, slips on the edge.
BOBBY: Now all we got to do is try He feels a blur of motion, almost like a bird, and he is falling.falling, his life coming to an end. Grace is standing somewhere up above, briefly seen. Did she push him? He doesn't know. He's stunned as he falls on the rocks next to the bodies of Jake and Virgil. He screams out in sharp pain. His leg feels broken. But he is alive. Grace walks away, cutting it all off, deeply shaken. She must get away from the past and all these hollow men. She closes the trunk of the Mustang, gets in the driver's seat, reaches for the ignition key. Her hand fumbles for it a moment. It isn't there.
GRACE: She sits there. Bobby is calling from below.
BOBBY: Grace! Help me, Grace.! We been through too much together. We've only had one day, but you and me have been through more than most people ever will. I know you were angry at me, and, you know, you were right! I'm sorry I hit you. I was wrong about leaving you. You don't belong in Mexico. She finally gets out and walks back to the edge of the cliff, looks down.
BOBBY: Thank you. Thank you. I.I knew you wouldn't leave me, Grace.
GRACE: Bobby? Are you all right?
BOBBY: I busted my leg!
GRACE: Can you make it back up?
BOBBY: Grace in the trunk of my car is a tow rope. It should reach down here. Go get it, throw it down. She looks. Of course the trunk is closed. She closed it.
GRACE: Bobby, the trunk.it's locked. Throw the keys up to me. I'll get the rope. Bobby's eyes pass over Jake a few feet away, his eyes staring upwards in death. They take in the gun still attached to his waist. He knows the trunk wasn't locked when they took Jake out.
BOBBY: I can't throw that far. You got to climb down here and get the keys. You can make it. It's the only way Grace. Grace looks down at the drop. It's a tough descent but she knows she could make it and get back up as well.
BOBBY: Grace!.Please, Grace! You have to help Grace takes a look around.
GRACE: Okay. I'm coming. Calm down! She starts down the cliff face. As she descends, he talks I knew you'd help me. I knew you wouldn't leave me baby, cause we're tied together too close. We belong together always. Grace makes it to the bottom of the drop, and walks cautiously towards Bobby. Bobby! Don't flip out on me. I can't do this alone. I know you don't trust me, but you gotta pull yourself together, I'm not gonna leave you.I never wanted it to go down like this. It was different with you Bobby. You had dreams like me. You listened. I would've gone anywhere with you, Bobby. We can make this work. I'm sorry.I really am. I didn't wanna hurt Can he believe her? She sounds so sincere this time. She's heading for the body of Jake. And the gun. Bobby knows that and is already crawling there. They're right here, Grace. The keys. Come get me out of here. Know why else I could never leave you?
GRACE: Why's that?
BOBBY: 'Cause I love you. Inching closer. Closer. They meet at the apex of Jake's corpse.
GRACE: And I love you too.
BOBBY: And love's a funny thing. Sometimes I don't know if I want to love you. Grace leans close to Bobby. He dangles the keys out in front of her, but she doesn't reach for them. Her eyes go to Bobby. She reaches for him. At that instant Bobby's hands shoot out and clamp hard around her. A sharp gurgle is all that escapes Grace as Bobby twists the life from her, as Jake leers up at them.
BOBBY: Grace twists and flails in Bobby's hands, but in spite of his bleeding stump, he holds her like a bear trap holds a grizzly.
BOBBY: I love you Grace, but She looks at him, trying to protest, shaking her head. Grace's flailing goes into overdrive. Somewhere in his semi-delirious state, Bobby's eyes might notice the gun at Jake's waist is no longer there. Grace manages one word:
GRACE: Bobby is in agony as he kills her, part beast, part lover, he kills that which he loves. Suddenly, a SHOT is heard. Bobby buckles with the blast, hit in the side. He kills her with one last wrenching thrust of his hands, breaking her neck. Bobby looks down at Jake's gun, which she clutches in her hand, and sees the hole in his side and the river of blood that flows from it. He manages to stand, looks at Jake; their bodies lying side by side. Bobby, with great difficulty, claws his way back up the rocks to the car, his fast-flowing wound staining the white rocks with He makes it to the top and, losing more blood, climbs into the driver's seat. He checks the money in the bag. All there. All As he pulls a huge clot of blood from his side, the vultures circle. Perhaps one, smarter than the others, lands close by. It spooks Bobby but he's okay. He looks in the mirror.
BOBBY: Bobby is in agony as he kills her, part beast, part lover, he kills that which he loves. Suddenly, a SHOT is heard. Bobby buckles with the blast, hit in the side. He kills her with one last wrenching thrust of his hands, breaking her neck. Bobby looks down at Jake's gun, which she clutches in her hand, and sees the hole in his side and the river of blood that flows from it. He manages to stand, looks at Jake; their bodies lying side by side. Bobby, with great difficulty, claws his way back up the rocks to the car, his fast-flowing wound staining the white rocks with He makes it to the top and, losing more blood, climbs into the driver's seat. He checks the money in the bag. All there. All As he pulls a huge clot of blood from his side, the vultures circle. Perhaps one, smarter than the others, lands close by. It spooks Bobby but he's okay. He looks in the mirror.
BOBBY: You're still lucky. He puts the key in the ignition, the engine comes to life. Suddenly, the RADIATOR HOSE Darrell installed blows apart loudly. Bobby knows exactly and immediately what it is as a cloud of steam now rolls from under his hood. He shakes his head, frustrated. Oh shit!.( then ) Arizona. He can't help but laugh at his bad luck. As we rise off the desert floor and take flight with the vultures, eventually leaving them all as specks of earth in the vast empty canyons of
THE END: Writers : John Ridley Richard Rutowski Oliver Stone
