SALESWOMAN: This is Mr. Mathison. He's a doctor. DR. MATHISON looks over the scene and then directly at the striking woman.
DR. MATHISON: You okay? The woman nods, "Yes." Sweat trickles down her face. THE BABY'S PIERCING CRIES
SALESWOMAN: An ambulance is on the way. Dr. Mathison puts down his shopping bags and moves to her. He kneels down and gestures for the bundle of sweatshirts in her arms.
DR. MATHISON: Is there a name yet? Beat. The woman smiles for the first time.
WOMAN: She hands him the wrapped child. We can't see the baby, but THE PIERCING CRIES
WOMAN: Is he supposed to be crying like that? The doctor lowers the baby to his lap and unwraps him. The woman can't see her baby anymore. She watches Dr. Mathison as he looks down and examines her child. Beat. Dr. Mathison doesn't look up for the longest time.
WOMAN: Can I have him back? THE BABY'S CRYING IS RELENTLESS. UNNERVING. Beat. The doctor finally glances up. He looks shaken. He makes eye contact with the woman for only a second. It's enough. A chill goes through her body. He looks to the three saleswomen who were in the room.
DR. MATHISON: What happened during the His hard stare unsettles the women. The OLDER SALESWOMAN speaks up.
OLDER SALESWOMAN: Nothing. It was very quick. The baby just wanted to come right out. There was no Did you drop him? Everyone becomes very still. The mother looks like she stopped breathing. THE
DR. MATHISON: Did you drop him? Everyone becomes very still. The mother looks like she stopped breathing. THE
DR. MATHISON: Did you drop this baby? Jesus Christ, no. The BABY SCREAMS. The doctor whispers something to himself, we can't hear. He looks up to the saleswoman who brought him in.
OLDER SALESWOMAN: Jesus Christ, no. The BABY SCREAMS. The doctor whispers something to himself, we can't hear. He looks up to the saleswoman who brought him in.
DR. MATHISON: Please inform the ambulance we have a situation. Dr. Mathison turns back to the mother. Beat.
DR. MATHISON: I've never seen this. It appears your infant sustained some fractures while in your uterus. His arms and legs are EXT. TRAIN STATION NEW JERSEY - DAY LEGEND "PRESENT DAY" A fountain of humanity bubbles up from the escalators to the train platform. Businessmen take their last desperate drags of their cigarettes. Women traveling with children herd their luggage and offspring into tight shapes as they move. College students with backpacks look around dazed at the various track numbers. Last call track three, Amtrak Clocker making it's final stop at Philadelphia's thirtieth street station. First two passenger cars only. First two cars only. A face inside the train watches the stream of passengers emerging from the escalators. DAVID DUNNE, a man in his early forties, rest his temple against the glass and quietly observes the movement outside. The train starts to pull out.
DAVID: Someone left these. You want The woman looks over the one being offered and then points to the Sports Illustrated peeking out of the seat pocket. David pulls the magazine out and gives it to her.
DAVID: You like sports?
WOMAN: It's my field. I represent athletes. I'm an agent.
DAVID: What a coincidence? I'm a male synchronized swimmer and I'm looking for Is that right?
DAVID: But I'm afraid of water, so that's been holding my career back a little bit. The woman laughs.
DAVID: You represent someone in I'm meeting a player from Temple University. He's a cornerback. You like Not really.
WOMAN: I'm meeting a player from Temple University. He's a cornerback. You like Not really.
DAVID: Not really.
WOMAN: This kid is six foot two, two hundred and forty pounds. He runs the fifty in under six seconds. He's going to be a God. Beat. David studies the excitement in her eyes. ANOTHER LOUD VIOLENT BURST OF SOUND. David waits till the opposing train passes. The woman goes back to her magazine. Beat.
DAVID: I'm David Dunne. The woman looks up.
WOMAN: She goes back to the magazine. KELLY looks up from her Sports Illustrated. Her striking blue eyes gaze at David. She holds up her hand. Taps the diamond ring on her finger. An awkward silence.
DAVID: How long are you staying in KELLY looks up from her Sports Illustrated. Her striking blue eyes gaze at David. She holds up her hand. Taps the diamond ring on her finger. I'm married. What are you talking about? An awkward silence.
KELLY: DAVID( fake confusion ) What are you talking about? An awkward silence.
DAVID: I think you got the wrong The woman stares at David. She looks down. Beat. Closes the magazine.
KELLY: I'm going to find another Kelly gets up. She balances herself against a headrest as the train rumbles. She starts to the back of the car. David sits alone. He looks like he's drowning, but there's no water. He feels a stare. He glances up. The little girl spies on him from between the David leans towards the window to avoid eye contact. His hand reaches into his coat and slides out his wedding band. He puts it back on. His temple touches the glass. The vibration of the train begins to lull his eyes closed. Beat. David's head bounces lightly against the window. The shaking of the glass never allows David's eyes to completely close. He sits up when he realizes the shaking is getting stronger. He looks out the window. The scenery blurs as it flies by. Beat. David turns. Some of the other passengers start to react as they realize the train is picking up speed. The normal bumps of the tracks become amplified. The WORRIED VOICES OF THE TRAVELERS START FILL THE CABIN. The train goes faster.
MEGAN: You okay, Virginia? Beat. VIRGINIA shakes her head, "No."
MEGAN: I'll put something on the t.v. Maybe we'll find some almost naked guys to inspire Megan reaches up to the t.v. monitor mounted on the wall. She turns it on and starts flipping channels. She stops on ESPN where a swimming meet is underway. Men in bikini swimsuits line the edges of the pool. Virginia starts watching with great interest. Megan's eyes move to the tiny print moving across the bottom of the screen. Her face goes still as she reads the train number. 177.
DAVID: He FLASHES A LIGHT in David's eyes.
DAVID: David stares across as the scene with the other patients becomes more frantic and
DAVID: Against a window.
DAVID: Yes. Where are the rest of the passengers?
DAVID: MAN IN SCRUBS Did you get up from your David watches the other patient.
DAVID: David watches the other patient.
DAVID: Yes. Why are you looking at me like that? Your train derailed. Some kind of malfunction. It took a curve way to fast. A second train collided with yours after it derailed. The debris is spread over one mile. It's unbelievable they They only found two people alive so far. You and him. David looks to the other passenger now laying unnaturally still in the desperate whirlwind of activity around him.
JEREMY: I told you! Jeremy Dunne pushes forward through the mob of people and cameras. He bursts out and runs to David. He wraps his arms around David's waist. David just stands there, aware that the cameras are catching it all. He's overwhelmed. Hospital staff and a couple police officers push the media back. Jeremy tugs David to lean down. He does.
JEREMY: They thought everybody on the train died. David looks at his son's face. Wipes the tears on his cheek.
JEREMY: I told them they were wrong. A woman moves to them. David stands up and faces Megan Dunne.
JEREMY: Mom even cried. David looks at Megan's eyes.
JEREMY: A lot. Megan looks away.
MEGAN: Not a lot. They stand there for a moment. David looks shaken. Jeremy takes hold of his hand.
JEREMY: Let's go home. Megan nods. They move to the exit. The pack of cameras and reporters burst to life as they leave the building. They jockey for position to get a last glimpse of David Dunne.
DAVID: I don't think I got the job in New York.
MEGAN: What does that mean?
DAVID: I'm still going to New York. Just not this second.
MEGAN: I don't want to drag this out too long for Jeremy.
DAVID: I know. How about in the meantime, you don't sleep in the guestroom anymore? You sleep in our room. I'll sleep down here. It stopped being our room a long time ago. You should go up and get some rest. Beat. Megan slowly closes the door to the guest bedroom.
DAVID: How about in the meantime, you don't sleep in the guestroom anymore? You sleep in our room. I'll sleep down here. It stopped being our room a long time ago. You should go up and get some rest. Beat. Megan slowly closes the door to the guest bedroom.
MEGAN: It stopped being our room a long time ago. You should go up and get some rest. Beat. Megan slowly closes the door to the guest bedroom.
DAVID: Jeremy, why don't you go sleep with your mom? I want to sleep here I think it's be better if I was alone. I won't make any noise.
DAVID: I think it's be better if I was alone. I won't make any noise.
DAVID: How about your room then? If you get scared like before, you can come back in here? Beat. Jeremy doesn't answer because he's asleep. David rubs his forehead and gets up. He turns on the t.v., low volume, as he moves into the bathroom.
LEGEND "1969": A hazy afternoon. A fair has come into town. They have set up in the vast parking lot of the local high school. A line of women has formed in front of the portable bathrooms. The striking African American woman we saw giving birth is now standing in line. She is older and somehow more beautiful. She stands with a skinny, almost ethereal looking African American boy. The boy wears a metal brace on his leg. THE EIGHT YEAR OLD ELIJAH holds two oversized stuffed animals in his arms. He looks back over his shoulder as THE SOUND OF VOICES YELLING IN EXCITEMENT FILL THE AIR. His eyes dance over the many colorful rides in the parking lot. The door opens to one of the portable bathrooms. A woman steps out. Elijah's mother touches his head and enters the three foot square plastic bathroom. She turns back and gives him a look.
MOTHER: We'll play the water pistol game next. Elijah nods, "Yes" happily. The mother closes the cubicle door. Elijah is left alone amongst the line of women. They stare at him blankly. Their eyes moves over his leg brace. Elijah doesn't like it. He moves away from the line. A CRESCENDO OF CHEERS RISES IN THE AIR FROM SOMEWHERE IN THE FAIR. Elijah follows the voices. He carries the stuffed animals through the crowds of people. CLICK. CLICK. CLICK. His metal brace sounds as he walks. For a moment, he sees nothing but bodies all around him. He emerges amongst a huddle of teenagers who wait at a turnstile. A man in a red and white striped coat takes their tickets and waves them in. Elijah looks up and sees the sign above the turnstile. "The Hurricane." He watches the teenagers giggle as they each into a grey cup-like seat. They pull the metal bars down in front of them. The man in the red and white stripes leaves the turnstile. Elijah stares up at the multi-colored sign. Beat. He moves quickly. Ducks under the turnstile and climbs onto the platform. Elijah finds and empty circular seat. He slips inside the gray metal compartment and sits. He pulls down the rusted metal bar in front of him. He looks around at all the excited faces. His eyes fill with excitement too. His small hands feel the cold metal of the interior of the compartment. His expression changes. Elijah looks to the stuffed animals in his arms. He presses them to check their softness. He places the stuffed animals on either side of him on the seat. He's wedged in between them. Feels good. He reaches out and touches the hard rusted metal bar in front of him. Elijah looks a little anxious. Beat. He pulls off his sweater and wraps it around the bar. It goes around twice before he ties the arms together. He checks its softness. Elijah looks around the customized cup-like compartment he sits in. He smiles an eight year old smile of pride.
MOTHER: She moves in his direction by chance. She finds herself at the entrance to The Hurricane ride. She looks up at the sign above the turnstile. Her worried eyes immediately start searching the young faces in the gray circular compartments. Her eyes meet Elijah's. He waves. Her face goes very still. A HUGE ROAR OF MACHINERY as the ride starts up. Elijah yells to his mother as the platform starts running.
ELIJAH: I won't get hurt momma! I'm HIS WORDS GET EATEN UP BY THE CHEERS OF THE TEENAGERS AND THE GRIND OF MACHINERY. The platform spins. He sees a glimpse of his mother and the red and white striped man. She's pointing at Elijah. The platform turns. Elijah sees a flash of the red and white striped man's angered face as he yells at the frantic woman next to him. And then the ride speeds up. The gray circular seats start to spin on their own. The teenagers CHEER. Elijah's eyes fill with joy as the wind plays against his face. Suddenly the ride changes directions. The cup-like seats get jerked. Everyone grabs the metal bars to hold on. Elijah laughs as he smashes into the stuffed animal on his right. It cushions him and then falls to the floor of the compartment along with the other stuffed Elijah's expression becomes tense as his compartment spins. His hands slide over the rusted metal bar as the sweater unravels. Elijah looks around. a sudden panic enters his eyes.
PRIEST: Sarah Elaston, social worker at Broad and Locust Community Center. We pray for your soul. Kevin Elliott, business man, father of six. We pray for your soul. Glen Stevens, researcher in the area of Leukemia at Drexel University. We pray for your soul. David sits amongst the mourners in the standing room only church. His eyes drift to a woman two rows ahead of him. She's turned around, looking at him. Her eyes are red from crying. David looks away. His eyes stop on an old man far to his left just a few seats away. Father, mother and daughter stare silently. David surveys the entire church. Desperate inconsolable eyes question his existence from every direction. David has to look down.
PRIEST: .Jennifer Pennyman, third grade teacher at Jefferson We pray for your soul.
DAVID: I used to play football in college. In my first year as quarterback, we went on this winning streak. It just went on and on. It didn't matter who we played. I'd always You get superstitious when something like that happens. You give things meaning. Like you wear the same color socks each game or you listen to the same B.B. King song before you leave the apartment. I wouldn't even untie the shoelaces on my cleats. I'd just slip them on and off so nothing would change. I gave things meaning that had no meaning. I'm here to make sure I'm not making shoelaces into something they're not again. I was the only person to survive that accident. The only one. It feels like it means something. Are you a religious man, David nods, "No." The priest removes the sacred stoll from his around his neck and kisses it before folding it carefully.
PRIEST: Are you a religious man, David nods, "No." The priest removes the sacred stoll from his around his neck and kisses it before folding it carefully.
PRIEST: Good. Because I'm going to talk to you as a man. Not as a man of the cloth.
DAVID: Beat. The priest turns to David.
PRIEST: It was luck. What do you mean?
DAVID: What do you mean?
PRIEST: Luck. Random. Without David just sits awkwardly.
PRIEST: Three years ago, my cousin died on a plane that crashed on take off at Philadelphia International airport. Do you remember that crash? David nods, "Yes."
PRIEST: I prayed and prayed and finally found some meaning in the event. It gave me peace. And then not quite a year later, an entire family from my parish burned to death in a hotel fire Again I prayed. Again I found meaning. Just two days ago, my nephew rode with you on that train back from New York. He was traveling alone for the first time.
PRIEST: I'm sorry if I can't react to your survival with the appropriate 'It was the hand of God. It was a miracle.' kind of answer. I'm fresh out of those right now. David is shaken. Beat. The metal of the watch I was wearing was crushed like a sledge hammer hit it. Beat. The priest's eyes fill with emotion.
PRIEST: My twelve year old nephew's neck was broken in four places. What's your point? You were chosen? I don't think so. The priest turns and continues putting away artifacts from the mass. Silence fills the back room.
ANCIENT SECRETARY: Is Noel in?
DAVID: Is Noel in?
ANCIENT SECRETARY: No sir he is not. I read about you in the I was in an accident once too. A horse almost trampled me to death.
DAVID: ANCIENT SECRETARY I was in an accident once too. A horse almost trampled me to death.
ANCIENT SECRETARY: I was in an accident once too. A horse almost trampled me to death.
DAVID: ANCIENT SECRETARY I had to put him down. That's a sad story. ( beat ) Do you think you could ask Noel something for me? The ancient secretary's right hand immediately picks up a pen and positions it over a blank pad. Her left hand keeps typing. She never looks up.
ANCIENT SECRETARY: I had to put him down. That's a sad story. Do you think you could ask Noel something for me? The ancient secretary's right hand immediately picks up a pen and positions it over a blank pad. Her left hand keeps typing. She never looks up.
DAVID: That's a sad story. Do you think you could ask Noel something for me? The ancient secretary's right hand immediately picks up a pen and positions it over a blank pad. Her left hand keeps typing. She never looks up.
ANCIENT SECRETARY: Ask if he can check how many sick days I've taken since I've worked here? Is that the entire message?
DAVID: Ask if he can check how many sick days I've taken since I've worked here? Is that the entire message?
ANCIENT SECRETARY: Is that the entire message?
DAVID: CUT TO:
DAVID: You know what I think about to calm down? I think about those big fat, hundred and twenty pound turtles that live in the islands. Those suckers never get angry, never get in fights and live longer than all of us and all they do all is sit on the beach and hump other Why don't we take a second and think about the turtles? Nobody moves. Rain washes over the agitated faces. A father breaks the moment.
FATHER: Yeah Jerry why don't you think about the fat ass turtles. Like your fat ass son on the field jeopardizing the rest of our chances at a fucking David tenses. Everyone looks to JERRY. A bald man who stands just a foot away. Jerry nods to himself. Looks like he's going to say something. Instead he lunges forward and smashes a HEADBUTT to the man who spoke to him. David tackles Jerry hard and fast. He drives him into the ground. Blood starts rushing out of the nose of the dazed father who took the headbutt. The other fathers start yelling and pushing each other. The remaining security guard calls on his walkie for assistance. David keeps Jerry immobilized in a powerful arm and head lock that holds the man's enraged face hard into the wet surface of the field. David's eyes are not on Jerry. They gaze out onto the field where twenty two elementary school boys have stopped playing and are standing frozen, helmets off, rain washing over their faces. They watch in horror as their parents attack each other on the sidelines.
DAVID: Hey Noel. Beat. He just stares.
NOEL: Forty dollars. David turns on the bench.
DAVID: You're getting a forty dollar raise per week. that's it. I checked. You were right. You've never taken a sick Five years, no sick days. I get it. You want a raise. You made your point. The room is still. Beat.
NOEL: You're getting a forty dollar raise per week. that's it. I checked. You were right. You've never taken a sick Five years, no sick days. I get it. You want a raise. You made your point. The room is still. Beat.
NOEL: I checked. You were right. You've never taken a sick Five years, no sick days. I get it. You want a raise. You made your point. The room is still. Beat.
NOEL: All right fifty dollars and that's the god damn limit. Are we done here? Beat. David nods, "Yes."
LEGEND "1974": A thirteen year old Elijah sits in a chair with his arm in a sling. He watches a small black and white television in the corner of the room. WE HEAR FOOTSTEPS. Elijah's mother walks into the room. She looks around for a moment, and then moves to the television. Turns it off. The room GOES SILENT.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: No more sitting in this room. I've let it go on long I'm not going out anymore. I'm not getting hurt again. This was the last time. I told you.
ELIJAH: I'm not going out anymore. I'm not getting hurt again. This was the last time. I told you.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: You can't do anything about that. You might fall between that chair and this television. If that's what God has planned for you, that's what's going to happen. You can't hide from it in your room. Elijah just sits staring at the dark television screen.
ELIJAH: They call me Mr. Glass at school. Cause I break like Elijah's face is tense. Unyielding. Beat. Elijah's mother says the next words in almost a whisper.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: .You make this decision now to be afraid. And you'll never turn back your whole life. You'll always be afraid. Elijah's eyes move from the television to his mother. He sees the emotion in her face. Neither says anything for a while. Beat.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: .I got a present for you.
ELIJAH: ELIJAH'S MOTHER Forget why. Do you want it or not? Elijah thinks it over. He nods, "Yes."
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Forget why. Do you want it or not? Elijah thinks it over. He nods, "Yes."
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Well, go get it then.
ELIJAH: Where is it?
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: On a bench, across the Elijah looks at his mother with disbelief.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: You calling me a liar? She points to the window. Beat. Elijah gets up and moves to the only window in the room. The view from his room looks out over a narrow street. On the other side of the street is a public playground. A handful of children are playing on it. There are three benches to one side of the swings. On one of them is a THIN PACKAGE wrapped in brown paper with a bow on it. Elijah looks to his mom who has joined him at the window.
ELIJAH: Someone's gonna take it. Then you better get out there soon.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Then you better get out there soon.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: I bought a whole bunch. They'll be one of these waiting for you, every time you want to come out here. They said this one has a surprise ending. Elijah looks to his mother. His intelligent piercing eyes take her in for a He looks back down at his lap. He opens the first page.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: They said this one has a surprise ending. Elijah looks to his mother. His intelligent piercing eyes take her in for a He looks back down at his lap. He opens the first page.
MAN: This is from Fritz Champion's own library. This is before the first issue of the comic book hit the stands in 1968. Elijah glances at the BUSINESS MAN standing next to him and then back to the It's a classic depiction of good versus evil. Notice the square jaw of Slayer - common in most comic book heroes. And the slightly disproportionate size of Jaguaro's body to his head. This again is common, but only in villains. The thing to notice about this piece. The thing that makes it very, very special. is its realistic depiction of its figures. When the characters eventually made it into the magazine they were exaggerated. as always This is vintage. The business man rubs his face. Gazes at the sketch. Beat.
ELIJAH: It's a classic depiction of good versus evil. Notice the square jaw of Slayer - common in most comic book heroes. And the slightly disproportionate size of Jaguaro's body to his head. This again is common, but only in villains. The thing to notice about this piece. The thing that makes it very, very special. is its realistic depiction of its figures. When the characters eventually made it into the magazine they were exaggerated. as always This is vintage. The business man rubs his face. Gazes at the sketch. Beat.
BUSINESS MAN: Wrap it up.
ELIJAH: You've made a considerably wise decision. Elijah starts to the back of the store which we now see is some type of art gallery where all the framed pictures are images and sketches from comic books.
BUSINESS MAN: My kid's gonna go berserk. Elijah jams his walking stick into the extra thick carpet and stops. He turns.
ELIJAH: Once again please?
BUSINESS MAN: My son Jeb. It's a gift for How old is Jeb?
ELIJAH: How old is Jeb?
BUSINESS MAN: Elijah starts back to the businessman shaking his head strongly.
ELIJAH: Elijah starts back to the businessman shaking his head strongly.
ELIJAH: No, no, no, no no. You need to go now.
BUSINESS MAN: What did I say?
ELIJAH: Do you see any Telletubbies around here?. Do you see a slender plastic tag clipped to my shirt with my name printed on it?. Do you see a little Asian child with a blank expression sitting outside in a mechanical helicopter that shakes when you put a quarter in it?. No?. Well that's what you see at a toy store? Any you must think this is a toy store, cause you're in here shopping for an infant named Jeb. One of us has made a gross error and wasted the other person's valuable Elijah's eyes pierce through the shaken man.
ELIJAH: This is an art gallery my friend. This is piece of Elijah points at the sketch.
ELIJAH: This is one of seventeen original drawings by Fritz Champion remaining in the world. It's value will triple every year. This piece is to be treasured. To be cherished. To be coveted by every single one of your banker friends that think they're better than The business man stares at the sketch with large eyes. Beat.
BUSINESS MAN: What if I kept it? I'm listening.
ELIJAH: I'm listening.
BUSINESS MAN: I'll keep it in my office What about Jeb?
ELIJAH: What about Jeb?
BUSINESS MAN: I have a lock on the door. Elijah just stares.
ELIJAH: Will it be near a window?
BUSINESSMAN: No direct sunlight will fall on it. Elijah eyes the man for many seconds. Beat.
ELIJAH: Come back in three days. I'll think about it. Elijah starts to the back. He passes the front door as two customers walk in. Elijah talks over his shoulder to them.
ELIJAH: We're by appointment only.
MAN: I received a card from your Congratulations, you have a mailbox. The sale isn't for two weeks.
ELIJAH: Congratulations, you have a mailbox. The sale isn't for two weeks.
MAN: This one was under the windshield of my car. Elijah turns and faces the customers for the first time. David Dunne stands with Elijah just stands staring for the longest time. Beat. He walks closer to them. When Elijah speaks, his voice has a whispery quality to it.
ELIJAH: You've never been sick?
DAVID: I don't know for sure. .I don't think so. David and Elijah quietly look at each other. Beat.
ELIJAH: Well if this ain't a riddle worthy of the Riddler?
ELIJAH: So let's get some of the usual questions out of the way. Why am I using a cane? Raise your hand if you were thinking that. Jeremy raises his hand.
ELIJAH: I fractured my leg. It's the fifth time I've done that particular bone. It didn't really heal well this time.
ELIJAH: Raise your hand is you're wondering who the hell breaks the same bone five Jeremy and David raise their hands.
ELIJAH: I have something called Osteogenesis Imperfecta. It's a genetic disorder. I don't make this particular type of protein very well and it makes my bones very low in density, very easy to break. I've had fifty-four breaks in my life. I have the tamest version of the disorder. Type one. There are type two, type three, and type four. Type four's don't make it very That ends our lecture on the medical anomaly known as Elijah Price. Elijah stares at his two rapt listeners.
ELIJAH: How certain are you that you haven't been sick in your Seventy-five percent.
DAVID: Seventy-five percent.
ELIJAH: Seventy-five percent? That's not nearly good enough for me. I'm extremely skeptical.
DAVID: Skeptical about what?
ELIJAH: Your answer to my question. It's one thing to have never been injured in your life, but to state that you've never taken ill, well that's a whole new level.
JEREMY: Dad's been injured. What's he talking about?
ELIJAH: What's he talking about?
DAVID: In college. A car accident.
ELIJAH: Was it serious? David nods.
JEREMY: He couldn't play football Beat. Elijah looks shaken.
ELIJAH: I assumed because of the You assumed wrong. Elijah closes his eyes. When his eyes open, the life force in them has diminished. Beat.
DAVID: You assumed wrong. Elijah closes his eyes. When his eyes open, the life force in them has diminished. Beat.
ELIJAH: It's over. You can go now. Elijah uses his cane to get up and walk back through the doors of the store.
DAVID: I think you skipped a couple Elijah turns.
DAVID: You forgot the "Now I'm going to tell you what the hell is going on" step. See usually that comes before the, "It's over" Step. And it always, always comes before the "You can go" What is over?
ELIJAH: The life of an idea that has lived too long in my head. David stares at Elijah impatiently.
ELIJAH: There are probably only four or five individuals in the world who can claim more knowledge of comics than myself. I've spent a third of my life in a hospital bed with nothing else to do but read. I have studied the form intimately. I have seen the patterns in them. The references to social and cultural events and the atmosphere that surrounded them. I've come to believe that comics are our last link to the ancient way of passing on history.
ELIJAH: The Egyptians drew pictures on walls about battles, and events. Countries all around the world still pass on knowledge through pictorial I believe that comics, just at their core now. have a truth. They are depicting what someone, somewhere felt or experienced. Then of course that core got chewed up in the commercial machine and gets jazzed up, made titillating - cartooned for the sale rack. Elijah gazes at David.
ELIJAH: This city has had its share of disasters. Well publicized ones. It was around the time of that plane crash, when it first entered my head. And there it stayed, as I waited and watched the news over the And then one day I see a news report on a train accident and its sole survivor who was miraculously unharmed. And just like that, an idea blossoms into the flower of possible reality.
DAVID: What was your idea Elijah? If there is someone like me in the world, and I'm at one end of the spectrum. Couldn't there be someone the opposite of me, at the other end? A person who can't be hurt like the rest of us. A kind of person they were talking about in those stories. Elijah points at the framed comic sketches. A person they believed was put here to protect the rest of us. Guard us.
JEREMY: You thought my dad was a Jeremy don't take another sip of that drink. Jeremy looks down at the paper cup in his hands.
DAVID: Jeremy don't take another sip of that drink. Jeremy looks down at the paper cup in his hands.
DAVID: Throw it in the trashcan near the door and wait for me outside. Do it now David waits for Jeremy to exit the store. Beat.
DAVID: At the church. You were following me weren't you?
ELIJAH: Technically no. I gambled that you would attend the church service. I just waited for you. David glares at Elijah.
DAVID: What's this about? This is obviously some scam. Is this where you tell me one of those pictures is like an You've misunderstood.
ELIJAH: You've misunderstood.
DAVID: I see guys like you all the time in my work. You find someone you think is emotionally vulnerable and you tell them a fantastic story, utterly convincing. and somewhere in there, you slip it in. 'I just need your credit card number','I just need a small down David shakes his head. He smiles out of frustration. Beat.
DAVID: Did you know that this morning was the first morning I can remember, that I didn't open my eyes and feel that sadness. Do you know what I'm talking about? That little bit of sadness? I thought the person that wrote that note had an answer for me. For why I survived that train. For why my life feels so out of But I guess that's what you were counting on. Elijah stares carefully at David. Beat. David glances over to the entrance. Jeremy watched through the window concerned.
DAVID: I'm going to leave now. Good luck with your sale. Elijah watches David walk towards the front door.
ELIJAH: What type of job do you have David opens the door. He looks back at Elijah.
ELIJAH: You mentioned you've met 'guys like me' in your work. What type of job would that I work at the stadium as a security guard. Beat. David closes the door behind him. Elijah watches through the window as Jeremy takes David's hand as they cross the street. Elijah gazes out the window in a bit of a daze.
DAVID: I work at the stadium as a security guard. Beat. David closes the door behind him. Elijah watches through the window as Jeremy takes David's hand as they cross the street. Elijah gazes out the window in a bit of a daze.
WALKIE: Dunne, it's Jenkins, we got a guy at gate 17C with a bogus ticket. Says he knows you. He won't tell me his What's he look like?
WALKIE: He's got the most beautiful eyes. The hell kind of question is that? He's a Send him packing. I'm not walking all the way over Consider him packed. I didn't like his attitude. Struttin around with a cane and shit. Hold up Jenkins.
WALKIE: Consider him packed. I didn't like his attitude. Struttin around with a cane and shit. Hold up Jenkins.
ELIJAH: They said I couldn't get in with my ticket. Elijah offers him the ticket. David inspects it.
DAVID: It's for last week's game.
ELIJAH: I've come to understand An ill advised purchase in the parking lot. David hands Elijah back the ticket.
DAVID: What do you want?
ELIJAH: Not money. But I appreciate your healthy cynicism in the manner. It will be wise for both of us to proceed with greatest caution.
DAVID: We're not proceeding anywhere together.
ELIJAH: We've already begun. David looks around.
DAVID: One more time. What is it you want? Why is it, do you think, that of all the professions in the world. you chose Are you for real?
ELIJAH: Why is it, do you think, that of all the professions in the world. you chose Are you for real?
DAVID: Are you for real?
ELIJAH: You could have poured coffee in Starbucks, you could have learned to install track lighting in office buildings, you could have told people their horoscopes on the internet. You could have been one of ten thousand things. but in the end, you chose to protect people. You made that decision. and I find that very, very interesting. Now all I need is your credit card number. Beat. Elijah smiles.
ELIJAH: That last part was a joke. David fights it. But he smiles anyway. Beat.
DAVID: I got this job because my college coach called the guy who manages the stadium. There's no hidden meaning to David's walkie makes NOIES on his hip.
DAVID: They need me at the gate. David stares at Elijah leaning on his walking stick.
DAVID: Did you really want to see the game? I can get you in.
DAVID: It gets heaviest ten minutes before kickoff. David bumps a guy in line wearing an army jacket. David looks backs at him and continues walking. David moves to a security guard near the turnstiles.
DAVID: Why don't we pat down? David walks to his post near the gate and faces the crowd. Elijah moves next to Just give me a minute.
DAVID: Just give me a minute.
ELIJAH: Is there a problem?
DAVID: That guy in green. Sometimes people carry weapons in here. Then they drink too much. They're team isn't doing so well, bad things happen. We do random pat downs of the crowd to discourage people from If he's carrying, he'll step out of line. Elijah observes as a security team pats down random males as they move through the turnstiles. The GREEN ARMY JACKETED MAN moves forward in the line. His face is blank as he watches the pat down ahead of him. He's twenty people from the turnsstile. David eyes him. Fifteen people away. Ten. The man coughs and steps out of the line. Elijah watches the green army jacket melt into the thick part of the crowd and disappear as it moves away from the INT. STADIUM TUNNEL - AFTERNOON AN UNLIT arched concrete passageway. The SUNLIGHT from the stadium streams in causing long shadows. Elijah stands waiting in the ground tunnel by himself.
DAVID: I got you a seat in the seven hundred level. It's nose-bleed territory, but at least you won't get spit on.
ELIJAH: How did you know that man you bumped was carrying a Probably the army jacket. Those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show.
DAVID: Probably the army jacket. Those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show.
ELIJAH: You thought he was carrying a knife? I thought he was carrying But not a knife?
DAVID: I thought he was carrying But not a knife?
ELIJAH: But not a knife?
DAVID: I got this picture of a silver handled gun tucked in his pants. Like on t.v. Elijah stares at David. THE STADIUM CHEERS BOUNCE OFF THE GRAY WALLS.
ELIJAH: You have good instincts when it comes to things like Like what?
DAVID: Like what?
ELIJAH: Telling when people have done something wrong? Have you ever tried to develop it?
DAVID: Have you ever tried to develop it?
ELIJAH: Have you ever tried to develop it?
DAVID: I don't know what you're You're skill. Listen. I got to be on the sidelines during the game. You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at-
ELIJAH: You're skill. Listen. I got to be on the sidelines during the game. You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at-
DAVID: Listen. I got to be on the sidelines during the game. You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at-
ELIJAH: Characters in comic books are often attributed special powers. X-ray vision, things of that sort. David exhales slowly as he stares at Elijah.
DAVID: Okay, I don't want to play this game anymore.
ELIJAH: It's an exaggeration of the truth. Maybe it's based on something as simple as instinct. Like being able to touch someone and tell whether they've done something wrong. Or the level of what they've done The guy might not have been carrying anything.
DAVID: The guy might not have been carrying anything.
ELIJAH: Or he might have been carrying a silver handled gun tucked in his pants. David's WALKIE ERUPTS WITH NOISE.
DAVID: I have to go now.
ELIJAH: One last question. The car accident you were in. Was there anyone else The two men stand very still in the tunnel.
DAVID: The car accident you were in. Was there anyone else The two men stand very still in the tunnel.
ELIJAH: The car accident you were in. Was there anyone else The two men stand very still in the tunnel.
DAVID: Yes. My wife Megan. She was in the car with me. David turns and starts down the hall. David talks back over his shoulder.
DAVID: Have a good life Elijah and try to buy your tickets at an authorized sales Elijah watches as the silhouetted figure of David Dunne jogs down the darkness of the tunnel.
JEREMY: Was it sold out? David nods, "No."
DAVID: You know how mad your mom would be if she knew you were playing football? Jeremy nods.
JEREMY: Are you going to tell? David nods, "No."
JEREMY: You want yo play the last downs? We got a big guy like you. You can play on opposite sides. David looks to the fields to see a very muscular college age man in sweats who stands with the other children.
JEREMY: He's Potter's cousin. He's the starting corner back for Temple University. David stares at his son.
JEREMY: He going pro in the draft. They say he can run the In under six seconds. I've heard. David watches the cornerback being surrounded by kids. He's letting a couple of the kids feel his flexed bicep.
DAVID: In under six seconds. I've heard. David watches the cornerback being surrounded by kids. He's letting a couple of the kids feel his flexed bicep.
DAVID: I'm going to go in.
JEREMY: Just play one set of downs. I told them you were great.
DAVID: Why'd you do that?
JEREMY: Just one-
DAVID: ( beat ) I'm going in. I have to do some things.
JEREMY: What things?
DAVID: I'm going to work out.
JEREMY: I'll help you.
DAVID: There's nothing to do. Jeremy turns back to the children and waves. I can't play! I'm working out with my dad! Jeremy turns back to his father and takes his hand. David looks down at his son who waits patiently.
DAVID: Why don't you rest now? I'll take it from here. You've been a big help. Jeremy goes to the opposite side of the bar and starts to put on another weight.
JEREMY: You think you could beat up Mike Tyson? I mean before he started wiggin out and eating people's ears?
DAVID: What if you worked out everyday for six months? You think you could beat him What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year? Jeremy is breathing hard as he puts the safety collars on the barbell and comes around to David's end of the bench. David lays back.
JEREMY: What if you worked out everyday for six months? You think you could beat him What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year? Jeremy is breathing hard as he puts the safety collars on the barbell and comes around to David's end of the bench. David lays back.
DAVID: What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year? Jeremy is breathing hard as he puts the safety collars on the barbell and comes around to David's end of the bench. David lays back.
JEREMY: What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year? Jeremy is breathing hard as he puts the safety collars on the barbell and comes around to David's end of the bench. David lays back.
DAVID: David takes hold of the barbell. Beat. He takes a deep breath. The weight comes off the armrests of the bench. David lowers it to his chest and pushes it back up. He does just one more rep with serious strain. He puts the weight back on the armrest and sits up.
DAVID: How much did you put on David twists around and looks back at the barbell. He counts up the black metal circles. He turns back to Jeremy.
DAVID: You put too much. That's two hundred and fifty pounds.
JEREMY: How much can you lift? David looks back at the weights.
DAVID: That's the most I've ever That could have been dangerous Jeremy. Why don't you go upstairs and let me finish up? Jeremy starts back to the barbell.
JEREMY: I'll take it off. I'll help you right. He slips off the safety collar.
JEREMY: You think you could have beaten up Bruce Lee? David hears the SOUND OF THE WEIGHTS SLIDING OFF THE BAR BEHIND HIM.
DAVID: I mean if you knew karate?
JEREMY: I mean if you knew karate?
DAVID: No Jeremy.
JEREMY: What if he wasn't aloud to kick and you were really mad at him? Jeremy is breathing hard again as he finishes with the weights and comes around to David. David lays back.
DAVID: David takes hold of the bar. Lifts it off the armrest. Brings it down. His arms are straining hard again. He raises it and lowers it two time; it takes a sizable effort. The weights bang down onto the armrest. David sits up.
DAVID: How much did you take off?
JEREMY: I lied. You added? Jeremy nods, "Yes" slowly. David turns completely around and looks at the barbell. He counts the black discs on the steel bar. Beat. Nobody says anything for a long time. How much is it? Two hundred and seventy. David just stares at the black steel circles on the metal bar. Jeremy comes and sits on the bench next to his father. They both stare at the weight. Beat. Let's put more. INT. BASEMENT - EARLY EVENING David's fingers wrap around the cold metal of the bar. He leans his head forward and looks to Jeremy.
DAVID: You added? Jeremy nods, "Yes" slowly. David turns completely around and looks at the barbell. He counts the black discs on the steel bar. Beat. Nobody says anything for a long time. How much is it? Two hundred and seventy. David just stares at the black steel circles on the metal bar. Jeremy comes and sits on the bench next to his father. They both stare at the weight. Beat. Let's put more. INT. BASEMENT - EARLY EVENING David's fingers wrap around the cold metal of the bar. He leans his head forward and looks to Jeremy.
DAVID: CUT TO:
DAVID: Why don't you move back a bit? Just to be safe. Jeremy moves back to the bottom of the stairs leading up to the house. He waits. Another deep breath as David heaves. The weight CLINKS as it comes off the arm rest. David is full out straining now as he lowers and raises it. His arms begin to tremble as he lifts it for the second time. BANG the weight lands back safely onto the rest. David sits up. He looks at his son whose eyes are wide. Beat.
JEREMY: Beat. David nods, "Yes."
DAVID: You should never try anything like this. You know that right? Jeremy nods, "Yes."
DAVID: What do you do if something Get mom. David nods, "yes" before starting his deep breathing. He takes one last breath. CLINK the weights comes off the rest. His arms are trembling immediately now. His face is locked in a grimace as he brings the bar down to his chest and back up again two times before dropping it onto the armrest. He slowly sits up.
DAVID: How many did you put on that All of it.
DAVID: There's no more left? Jeremy nods, "no" in a slight daze. Beat. David looks around his basement.
DAVID: What else can we use?
DAVID: Yeah, hello. Is David Dunne there? Yes. Is this David?
DAVID: MEGAN( on phone ) Yes. Is this David?
DAVID: Yeah? Megan where are you calling from? My name is Megan Inverso. We went to college together. David looks at the phone. The lights for line ONE and line TWO are glowing RED. David squints his eyes as he pieces together the situation. Beat. He moves back into the bathroom. The cord stretches as he takes his seat on the edge of the bathtub.
DAVID: I remember you. I was hoping you would call me, but. Anyway I decided not to wait. I was thinking, it might be nice to go to dinner Yeah it might be nice. We hear A SOUND ON THE OTHER END OF THE PHONE. A SOUND MUCH LIKE AN EXHALE.
DAVID: Yeah it might be nice. We hear A SOUND ON THE OTHER END OF THE PHONE. A SOUND MUCH LIKE AN EXHALE.
DAVID: .When you work with clients on machines, do they sometimes just jump up a level or two? Do something they didn't know they were capable of?
MEGAN: Not often, but it is possible. Most people get scared when they see the shadow of their limits. They don't know how long the shadow really is. They don't know how far away the real limits are standing. They stop out of fear. David nods as he takes it in. Beat. He looks down at his plate and twirls his lo mein onto a fork. Megan watches him.
MEGAN: This is kind of strange isn't it? David nods, "yes" before taking the bite.
MEGAN: We're not even acting like David touches his mouth with his napkin.
MEGAN: Like that. Your mouth's dirty. You tapped your napkin to your lips. You only do that when you're with someone you don't know. David looks down at his napkin.
DAVID: What do I do when I'm around someone I know?
MEGAN: You use your sleeve. They both smile at each other. Beat. David and Megan look over to the only other table of late night diners as they get up from their table. A woman about Megan's age walks over to her.
WOMAN: I thought it was you.
MEGAN: ( to David ) This is Claire. Her son is in Jeremy's class. Claire and I worked on the school food drive together.
DAVID: CLAIRE smiles as she stares at David. She turns to Megan. Claire turns back to David.
CLAIRE: I'm very happy about this. Megan mentioned to me she was considering dating Megan becomes still. I'm sorry, what's your name? Beat. David doesn't look up.
DAVID: This is my husband. Beat. All three people become frozen in silence. Claire looks to Megan. I am so sorry. Megan nods. Claire quietly walks away form the table and joins her group as they leave the restaurant. Beat. Megan and David are the last one's left. They sit silently in their booth. Megan looks at David's face. He's shaken. He slowly takes a sip of water and then taps his mouth with napkin.
CLAIRE: This is my husband. Beat. All three people become frozen in silence. Claire looks to Megan. I am so sorry. Megan nods. Claire quietly walks away form the table and joins her group as they leave the restaurant. Beat. Megan and David are the last one's left. They sit silently in their booth. Megan looks at David's face. He's shaken. He slowly takes a sip of water and then taps his mouth with napkin.
MEGAN: This is my husband. Beat. All three people become frozen in silence. Claire looks to Megan. I am so sorry. Megan nods. Claire quietly walks away form the table and joins her group as they leave the restaurant. Beat. Megan and David are the last one's left. They sit silently in their booth. Megan looks at David's face. He's shaken. He slowly takes a sip of water and then taps his mouth with napkin.
DAVID: David is not paying attention to the girl. He watches as his wife takes off her coat and heads to the guest room. She turns before entering the room. David and his wife make eye contact. David nods. Megan goes into her room. The guest door closes softly. David finds the babysitter looking at him with an odd expression.
DAVID: Thank you. David opens the front door for her.
DAVID: His room? The baby sitter nods with a smile as she walks out the front door.
DAVID: Jeremy opens his eyes. Beat. Jeremy's eyes start to shut. Jeremy Dunne falls asleep. David Dunne stands in the darkness of his son's room. Posters of comic book heroes don the walls around him.
ELIJAH: They call me Mr. Glass. Who does?
ELIJAH: Elijah just keeps staring. Beat. Elijah's head nods the slightest bit up and down. The PHYSICIAN'S WORDS FADE AWAY as Elijah continues to gaze at an abstract point in the room.
JANIS: Your ten o'clock is here. The hospital discharged him this morning.
MEGAN: The co-worker takes Megan's position by the elderly man. Megan crosses the physical therapy center. A man in a wheel chair waits by her office. She walks up to him with a smile.
MEGAN: Elijah right? Elijah's leg is immobilized by a metal brace and held straight. Under his shirt we see the wrappings around his ribs. His left pinky is in a splint. He smiles and nods, "yes" to Megan.
MEGAN: We're going to prevent any substantial atrophy of your good leg with this. It works the quadriceps.
ELIJAH: How long have you been Megan is taken off guard by the question. She stares at Elijah. Beat.
MEGAN: Twelve years.
ELIJAH: How did you get together? Elijah smiles warmly. Megan smiles softly back.
MEGAN: A car accident. Elijah smiles even bigger.
ELIJAH: Now you're going to have to tell me more.
MEGAN: .See my husband was a big football star in college and we were in an accident together. Our car flipped on an icy road. We were both injured. He couldn't play football anymore. If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't have been together.
ELIJAH: How so?
MEGAN: Football wasn't the kind of life I wanted. For ten years I'd be by the phone waiting for a call telling me he broke his neck in a practice game. And if it wasn't that call, it would be a call telling me he blew out his knee or suffered his third concussion. I've seen way too much of it in my job. I can barely take it when my clients are in pain. I don't hate the game. I admire the amount of skill it involved and, like everyone else, I was in awe of how he could play it, but I couldn't give him my heart and then have something happen to him. And it always does with that game. It's not a thing many people would understand.
ELIJAH: You and my mother would have a special connection.
MEGAN: Any way, fate stepped in and took football out of the .And everyone lived happily ever after. Sort of. What part of David's body was injured? Beat. Megan's eyes become utterly still.
ELIJAH: .And everyone lived happily ever after. Sort of. What part of David's body was injured? Beat. Megan's eyes become utterly still.
MEGAN: Sort of. What part of David's body was injured? Beat. Megan's eyes become utterly still.
ELIJAH: What part of David's body was injured? Beat. Megan's eyes become utterly still.
MEGAN: Who said my husband's name is David?
STOCKY WOMAN: SLAM CUT BACK TO PRESENT: We're back with David in the crowd. He turns and watches the stocky woman walk down the tunnel. She's holding the wrist of her five year old son. She yanks it quickly and violently to keep the boy close at her side. She and the boy dissolve into the crowd.
ELIJAH: There have been three major disasters in this city over the last four years. I've followed each one of them. A Seven-three-seven crashes on take off. One hundred and seventy-two die. No survivors. A hotel fire downtown. Two hundred and eleven die. No survivors. And am Amtrak train derails seven and half miles outside of the city. One hundred and thirty one die. One survivor. He is unharmed. I've spoken with your husband about his survival. I suggested a rather unbelievable explanation. Since then, I've come to believe, that my explanation, however unbelievable, is in fact, And what was that It's a mediocre time Mrs. Dunne. People are starting to lose hope. It's hard for many to believe that extraordinary things live inside themselves as well as others. I hope you can keep an open mind? Is this a religious thing?
MEGAN: And what was that It's a mediocre time Mrs. Dunne. People are starting to lose hope. It's hard for many to believe that extraordinary things live inside themselves as well as others. I hope you can keep an open mind? Is this a religious thing?
ELIJAH: It's a mediocre time Mrs. Dunne. People are starting to lose hope. It's hard for many to believe that extraordinary things live inside themselves as well as others. I hope you can keep an open mind? Is this a religious thing?
ELIJAH: I own a comic book museum. It's called the Limited For a second there I thought you were a fanatic.
ELIJAH: I believe comic books are based loosely on reality - I believe there are real life equivalents of the heroes in those books that walk the earth - I believe your husband is one of those Beat. Megan becomes utterly still.
ELIJAH: I'm glad you brought up fate Mrs. Dunne. I'm becoming a strong believer in it. See, David refuses to speak with me any longer. And when I saw your name on my insurance list of approved physical therapists. It was like fate had We were meant to speak to each other.
DAVID: We've had some problems with drug selling in this Would you mind if I checked the pockets of your The gray eyed man stands eerily still with his nachos and drinks. The two men just stare at each other, evaluating the situation. People move in both directions around them, unaware. The gray eyes man holds his tray of food to the side and raises his arms slowly. David steps forward and reaches into his pockets. Beat. David pulls his hands out from the pockets. They're empty. The gray eyes man brings his arms down. Beat. The walkie on David's hip COMES TO LIFE. David reaches down and pulls it off his belt without removing his eyes from the man in front of him. David brings the walkie to his mouth. There's a message for you at the office. Your kid was David's face changes. Just now. They want you to come down to his school. David lowers the walkie from his face. The gray eyed man has a slight smile on. Why don't you go take care of your business? The gray eyed man takes a bite of a nacho as he stares at David.
THERMOMETER BOY: Is that your dad? Jeremy nods "Yes."
THERMOMETER BOY: I bet my dad can beat up you Jeremy turns to the thermometer boy.
JEREMY: I don't think so.
NURSE: .No, he insisted we only call you. Though it took us a while to track down your number. It's not on file here.
DAVID: Megan handles that type of What stuff is that?
NURSE: What stuff is that?
DAVID: Jeremy's stuff. David feels uncomfortable as the nurse just stares at him. Beat. David rises from his seat.
DAVID: So do I need to put any smelly ointments on him or The white haired nurse nods, "no."
NURSE: It's more emotional damage. It wasn't very serious David nods.
NURSE: Nothing like when I sent you to the hospital. David stares at the white haired nurse.
DAVID: What was that?
NURSE: My office was on the other side of the building back You don't remember me do David nods, "no."
NURSE: I had red hair. David stares at the woman. He doesn't recognize her.
NURSE: I think you were a little younger than Jeremy when it Did you know we changed the conduct rules of the pool because of you? David nods, "no" slowly.
NURSE: The kids still talk about it like some ghost story."Did you know there was a kid that almost drowned in the pool? He got pneumonia and almost died." The nurse shakes her head.
NURSE: We let them tell it. It helps keep them safe. Are you still phobic of David seems lost in his thoughts. He looks up at the nurse.
NURSE: Are you still phobic of David seems lost in his thoughts. He looks up at the nurse.
DAVID: Yes I am.
DAVID: You are like me. We both can get hurt. I'm just an ordinary man. I'm not what you think I am. Jeremy just stares at his father. Beat.
JEREMY: Why do you keep saying that?
MEGAN: He's just laying in bed. He's pretty upset. He won't He's dealing with a lot of I think he needs to find answers himself. It's weird to hear you tell me about Jeremy. A good weird. David looks at Megan. They stand silently in an awkward pause. Beat.
DAVID: He's dealing with a lot of I think he needs to find answers himself. It's weird to hear you tell me about Jeremy. A good weird. David looks at Megan. They stand silently in an awkward pause. Beat.
MEGAN: It's weird to hear you tell me about Jeremy. A good weird. David looks at Megan. They stand silently in an awkward pause. Beat.
DAVID: Would you like to try going-
MEGAN: -out again. Beat. David smiles.
DAVID: -out again. Beat. David smiles.
DAVID: But if we see another mother from Jeremy's school, me name is Juan. I always wanted to be a Juan. Megan smiles softly back. Beat.
MEGAN: Oh. Elijah Price came to visit me at the center Megan sees David's shocked expression.
DAVID: Megan sees David's shocked expression.
MEGAN: He didn't do anything. He just told me his theory. It's sad when patients get like that. They loose Jeremy what the hell are you Megan suddenly realizes David is looking over her shoulder. Megan turns around. She SCREAMS. Jeremy is standing in the doorway to the kitchen. He's crying hard. In his outstretched hands is the HAND GUN FROM DAVID'S CLOSET. It's pointed directly at You don't believe. I'll show you. You can't get hurt. -Oh my God.
DAVID: -Jeremy did you load that Jeremy nods, "Yes." Crying harder now. -You won't get hurt.
DAVID: -Elijah was wrong.
MEGAN: -Sometimes when people are sick or hurt for a long time, like Elijah, they're mind gets hurt too. David shoots a tense glance at Megan.
MEGAN: -They start to think things that aren't true. He hold me what he thought about your father. It isn't true. -I'll show you. David starts moving a little to his right. Jeremy follows him with the barrel of the handgun. David stops moving.
DAVID: -You know the story about the kid who almost drowned in the pool? Jeremy stops moving.
DAVID: -That was me they were talking about. I almost died. That was me. -You're lying.
DAVID: -I'm not. I just didn't connect it.
MEGAN: -Jeremy, your father was injured in college - you know that. You know all about that. Jeremy's small face tenses. Confusion mixes with the desperation on his face.
MEGAN: -Don't do it. He'll die Beat. Jeremy looks up, tears streaming down his cheeks. -I'll just shoot him once.
DAVID: -Jeremy listen to what- Jeremy starts pressing the trigger. The hammer clicks back.
JEREMY: -Don't be scared.
DAVID: -Jeremy if you pull that trigger I'm going to leave! I'm going to go to New York. Jeremy freezes. David flashes a desperate glance at Megan then back to Jeremy.
DAVID: You're right. If you shoot me, that bullet is going to bounce off me and I won't get hurt. but then I'm going to go upstairs and pack. And then leave to New Jeremy's hands are trembling. He starts to close his eyes as he raises the gun level with David's chest. Jeremy's eyes open. You're about to get into big trouble! I'm your father and I'm telling you to put that gun down right now God damn Jeremy puts the gun down on the floor in front of him and stands up. Megan leans against the refrigerator and slides down to a sitting position on the tiled floor. David walks over and picks up the gun. He unloads the bullets in his hand. David bends down very slowly and takes a seat on the kitchen floor. Jeremy is the last to sit down. He takes a seat in the doorway of the kitchen. Beat. He wipes his eyes with the back of his hand. Beat. .You didn't have to yell. The Dunne family sits in silence on the floor of their kitchen.
ELIJAH: Joined a rugby league. Turned out to be a bad idea. Come here I want to show you Elijah wheels over to one of the framed sketches on the wall. It's a charcoal drawing of a muscular figure shielding himself from a blow about to be delivered. A huge ominous shadow is covering him, as if something unspeakable and evil is just out of frame.
ELIJAH: Look at this. I just noticed this today. David steps in close and studies the drawing.
ELIJAH: This is from the Sentryman series. A color version of this was actually used in the second issue. Elijah points up to the drawing's face.
ELIJAH: Look at this eyes. What do you see? David looks right at the intense eyes of the drawing.
ELIJAH: It's fear. He was scared. They were being honest in the beginning you see. They let him be human. They turned him into a garden variety hero later. Then he was brave all the Elijah turns to David.
ELIJAH: I followed the guy in the army jacket. David becomes still as his words register.
ELIJAH: He had a silver handled gun tucked in the back of his Were you really injured in that car accident in David looks unsteady all of the sudden.
ELIJAH: Because I think you faked it. I think you took the opportunity to end your career - no questions asked. And I think you did it, of all things, for a women. Not only do you have the physical traits of a hero, down somewhere in there, you have the moral code of one too. You were ready to sacrifice everything for what's right. Where can you find that these days? Only thing you didn't realize is that you were giving up a part of yourself when you gave up football. The physical part. And you need that part desperately to feel balance again. You can have it back now. This was all just make believe before. What if there was someone the opposite of me? What if?. I now believe you are the genuine article Mr. David Dunne. The kind of person we knew existed, from our Elijah points to the room full of pictures.
ELIJAH: It's time for someone like Bad is winning. I can feel Elijah looks at David with deep admiration. His voice cracked a little at the end of his words. Beat. David doesn't take his hands out of his pockets. I must have felt some lump in his back when I bumped him. Most guns have a black or silver handle. I had a fifty-fifty shot at the That's not what I witnessed Stop messing with my life Elijah. My son almost shot me last night. He wanted to prove you were right.
ELIJAH: That's not what I witnessed Stop messing with my life Elijah. My son almost shot me last night. He wanted to prove you were right.
DAVID: Stop messing with my life Elijah. My son almost shot me last night. He wanted to prove you were right.
ELIJAH: I never said you couldn't be killed. I never said that.
DAVID: You have a problem, Elijah. My wife is right. Somewhere along the line one of your bones broke and your mind just broke with it. Are you finished?
ELIJAH: Are you finished?
DAVID: No. And I have been sick. I spent a week in a hospital when I was a boy recovering from pneumonia and almost Two skinny eight year old kids were playing around the pool. They were dunking me. I swallowed water. They didn't know it and they almost killed me. Heroes don't get killed like that. Normal people do. Beat. Elijah seems shaken for the first time. David stares at him coldly.
DAVID: Two skinny eight year old kids were playing around the pool. They were dunking me. I swallowed water. They didn't know it and they almost killed me. Heroes don't get killed like that. Normal people do. Beat. Elijah seems shaken for the first time. David stares at him coldly.
DAVID: I don't want to see you again okay. Now I'm finished. David turns and starts for the entrance. The BELL OF THE DOOR CLANGS as David Dunne leaves the store.
MEGAN: The sitter's here. David nods, "yes." Megan studies his tense expression.
MEGAN: We can do this another time if you want? I'm fine with David looks from the action figures, to his son's face to the face of his wife. They both have the same quiet anxious expression. Beat.
DAVID: But I put cologne on. Megan smiles.
MEGAN: Is that what that smell is? Jeremy giggles.
PONYTAIL MAN: Hey man it's twenty after. It's time to close. I gotta The top of the man's head doesn't move. Beat.
PONYTAIL MAN: You better not be jacking off to the Japanese comics. I swear to God. No response. Ponytail man closes his register and walks towards the back. As he gets closer to the customer, he realizes that the man is in a wheelchair. The Ponytail man walks ups to Elijah.
PONYTAIL MAN: Listen man, I didn't know you were in- Just choose something all Elijah doesn't react. He sits in his chair in a quiet daze. Ponytail man leans Hello. You understand Ponytail man makes fake sign language gestures in front of Elijah's face.
PONYTAIL MAN: Hello. You understand Ponytail man makes fake sign language gestures in front of Elijah's face.
PONYTAIL MAN: Look man, I'm just gonna wheel you out. You can think about things outside on the sidewalk. I gotta get some chicken in me, you know what I'm saying? Beat. The Ponytail man shakes his head moves behind Elijah. He starts wheeling him towards the front of the store. They move down a narrow aisle of comics. Elijah suddenly grabs the left wheel and turns the chair. His immobilized left leg hits a rack of comic books. A handful of comics tumbles to the ground.
PONYTAIL MAN: The ponytail man straightens the wheelchair and starts down the aisle again. After a couple of feet, Elijah jerks and grabs the other wheel sending the wheelchair ramming violently into the opposite wall. Comics are knocked free and fall onto the wheel chair and the nearby ground.
PONYTAIL MAN: Dude, I don't care if you are in a wheelchair. If you do that again, I'm calling Beat. The Ponytail man takes Elijah's silence as a, "Yes." He straightens the They move down the aisle. All is quiet. and then Elijah jerks the wheelchair to the left again. His metal brace and the wheelchair crash into two racks. Elijah gets covered in comics.
PONYTAIL MAN: That's it crackerjack! You're going to sit your ass in jail now. The Ponytail man moves to the front counter. Elijah sits in a trance - slightly hunched over. His eyes stare at a comic book in his lap. His expression changes for the first time. The Ponytail man finishes dialing. He looks over to Elijah as he waits for a voice on the other end. Elijah raises a single comic book in his hand.
ELIJAH: How much is this one?
DAVID: .I think rust.
MEGAN: As a color, not as rust. You know, a rust colored paint or wood? Megan leans slightly closer.
DAVID: As a color, not as rust. You know, a rust colored paint or wood? Megan leans slightly closer.
MEGAN: I didn't know that. Mine's still brown.
DAVID: My turn. What's your favorite song?
MEGAN: Soft and Wet, by the Artist Formerly Known as Prince.
DAVID: What was that?
MEGAN: We're supposed to be honest. Beat. David brings his stool closer.
DAVID: Soft and Wet. That's very My turn. When was the first time the thought popped into your head that we might not make David's grin slowly fades.
MEGAN: My turn. When was the first time the thought popped into your head that we might not make David's grin slowly fades.
DAVID: That's not the game. Megan moves her stool closer. They're only a foot or so apart.
MEGAN: It's a second date. There aren't any rules. Beat. David sips his drink slowly.
DAVID: I'm not sure.
MEGAN: Think carefully?
DAVID: What about the game?
MEGAN: It's finished. I won. Beat. David glances at Megan. She waits for his answer.
MEGAN: Maybe it wasn't a specific moment, maybe it-
DAVID: I had a nightmare one night and I didn't wake you up so you could tell me it was I think that was the first Does that count? That counts. Beat. Megan takes her glass up to her lips. Doesn't take a sip. Brings it back Do you knowingly keep Jeremy and me at a distance? Megan's face tenses. She's on the verge of getting upset.
MEGAN: Do you knowingly keep Jeremy and me at a distance? Megan's face tenses. She's on the verge of getting upset.
DAVID: Megan's face tenses. She's on the verge of getting upset.
MEGAN: I don't know Megan.
DAVID: I don't know Megan.
MEGAN: It's like you resent us David. Resent the life you Beat. David doesn't answer.
MEGAN: You know even if it meant we couldn't be together, I would never have wished that injury on you? What you could so physically was a gift. I would never have wished it to go away. Megan's eyes glaze with water. Beat.
MEGAN: You know that right? David takes a sip with a trembling hand. David's eyes look up and make eye contact with Megan's. He stares at her for the longest time. I know. Husband and wife sit close together in the corner of the bar on their second INT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT Megan stands next to David as he pulls out his wallet. The babysitter with the black dyed hair and Buddy Holly glasses stands ready to leave in the doorway.
DAVID: Who called through? Megan tries to hide her smile.
MEGAN: We're not moving.
MEGAN: Look let's be honest here. We're just at the beginning. I don't expect you or I to change the course of where our lives were headed because of two dates. If you do go to New York, we can still develop this. We'll just be forced to take it slow. And in the end, that's definitely better. This is our second time around David. I don't expect us to get carried away. I guess congratulations is the right thing to say. Megan takes off her coat as she moves to the guest bedroom. She disappears inside. The door closely behind her.
ELIJAH: The point of all this is, we now know something we didn't. You have a weakness. Water. It's your You hearing me David? Call me back. I got rugby practice in an hour.
MACHINE: Message erased.
DAVID: She doesn't answer. Her body is twitching as it sits pinned behind the wheel. David pulls at the handle of the mangled door. It's wedged tight. It won't move. The heat from the fire is tremendous. David's powerful arms keep pulling with all their strength.
DAVID: He just stares at her. She doesn't respond. A LIGHT WASHES OVER THEM. David turns to see a truck approaching up the road. David waves frantically. The truck slows. David turns back to Megan. Her eyes are open. Tears fall from David's face as he moves the hair out of her eyes. She looks at The driver of the truck slips and slides his way over to David.
DAVID: Me too. The driver of the truck slips and slides his way over to David.
DRIVER: Is she all right?
DAVID: I think her leg is Are you injured? Beat. David looks at Megan who lays shivering in the grass. He looks back at the My shoulder's hurt. The driver nods.
DRIVER: Are you injured? Beat. David looks at Megan who lays shivering in the grass. He looks back at the My shoulder's hurt. The driver nods.
DRIVER: Hold on. I got a C.B. in the The driver moves back to his truck. David takes Megan's hand in his and waits in the grass by the sight of their car on fire.
ELIJAH: DAVID'S VOICE Nothing is said on the other line for a couple of beats. WE HEAR THE ECHOED DIN
DAVID'S VOICE: Nothing is said on the other line for a couple of beats. WE HEAR THE ECHOED DIN
ELIJAH: Nothing is said on the other line for a couple of beats. WE HEAR THE ECHOED DIN
DAVID'S VOICE: What am I supposed to do? Elijah closes his eyes. His face fills with strength.
TEENAGER: What's your name? I think you drank too much.
DAVID: You need to leave now.
WOMAN: .See the villain's eyes. They're larger than the other characters'. They insinuate a slightly skewed perspective of how they see the world. Just off normal. David stares at the drawing.
DAVID: He doesn't look very That's what I said to my son. He said, there's always two kinds. The soldier villain who fights the hero with his hands, and then there's the real threat. The brilliant and evil arch enemy who fights the hero with his mind. David turns and looks at the striking and beautiful African American woman in her sixties who stands next to him.
WOMAN: That's what I said to my son. He said, there's always two kinds. The soldier villain who fights the hero with his hands, and then there's the real threat. The brilliant and evil arch enemy who fights the hero with his mind. David turns and looks at the striking and beautiful African American woman in her sixties who stands next to him.
DAVID: Are you Elijah's mother? The woman turns and looks at David for the first time.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: I am. I'm helping him with the sale.
DAVID: It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm David Dunne.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: He's spoken of you. He says you're becoming friends.
DAVID: We are. David looks across the store at Elijah talking with the customers.
DAVID: He's doing well today.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: I'm very proud of him. He's been through a lot in his life. A lot of ups and downs, a lot of bad spells. A couple I'd thought had broken him. I mean They were bad. But he made it. Yes he did.
DAVID: He's kind of a miracle.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Yes he is. They both watch Elijah from across the room.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: I'll tell him you're here. David watches as Elijah's mother walks across the store and waits for Elijah to finish talking. David turns back to the framed sketch. He looks at it with his hands in his pockets. Beat. David's stare turns into a gaze. His gaze turns into stillness. THE SKETCH is of a withered man with large tense eyes. He sits in the shadows. He's seated in some type of machine. There are lots of buttons and levers on the machine. The machine has wheels. David turns from the sketch. He looks across the room to Elijah seated in his wheelchair. Elijah's large eyes stay focused on the customer's as he finishes David turns back to the sketch. He looks at it with growing confusion. The more you look at drawing, the more the machine the man is seated in looks like a David looks back across the store. Elijah and his mother are talking. Elijah has spotted David. Beat. Elijah starts across the crowded store towards David. He wheels up to him.
ELIJAH: Did you see this? Elijah has a newspaper on his lap. He holds it up. There's a drawing on the front page. It's a hooded figure shielding two huddled children behind him. It has begun. David stares quietly at the sketch of himself.
ELIJAH: When I saw it this morning. I felt a part of the world Elijah looks down at the newspaper. David hesitates and then reaches forward. He reaches past the paper. And TOUCHES ELIJAH'S ARM.
MAN: What's going on? Elijah speaks to no one in particular as he stares out the window with tortured A plane just crashed.
ELIJAH: A plane just crashed.
ELDERLY MAN: I've worked here twenty-five years. I know all its Like if there was ever a fire on floors one, two, or three. Everyone in this hotel would be burned alive.
ELIJAH: ELDERLY MAN( whispers ) Like if there was ever a fire on floors one, two, or three. Everyone in this hotel would be burned alive.
ENGINEER: Passengers aren't allowed in Elijah doesn't answer and doesn't turn around as he exits train 177.
