UNKNOWN: Written by Didier van Cauwelaert
LIZ: Hey. You're gonna do great. You always do.
MARTIN: I'll do this. You check in. Liz pecks his cheek, gets out. Martin leans forward.
LIZ: The Eisenhower suite. Dr. and Mrs. Harris.
BELLHOP: Welcome to the Hotel Imperial. Have you stayed with us before?
MARTIN: No, this is our first visit to Berlin. We're he stops short, staring at their bags, stacked on the luggage cart. He turns, tracks the their taxi, already pulling out of the drive.
LIZ: What do you mean the suite may not be available?
RECEPTIONIST: I have to check with the manager. Security inspections of the rooms are still being completed.
LIZ: But we confirmed two months ago. Receptionist raises an apologetic hand as she attends to a ringing phone. Liz sighs, glances back toward the entrance. Suddenly curious as she sees.
MARTIN: Tegel airport. Arrivals. Quick. The driver pulls out into traffic. The rain still heavy. Martin stares out at the wet city. Eyes track as the shadowy columns of the Brandenburg Gate pass by. He lets himself relax a little, enjoying this moment of forced calm. He catches sight of the driver in the rear-view. Young, female, shortish hair. Tomboy cute. Smart eyes, older than her years. Layers of clothing. GINA. She glances into the mirror, catches Martin watching her.
GINA: Everyone says how much it's changed. Berlin. Eyes connect, brief. Wipers flip-flap.
MARTIN: .I wouldn't know. First time.
GINA: Yes, me too. I mean, I wouldn't know either. You're American? He looks back at her, inquisitive.
MARTIN: I think you missed. He stops, smiles as he realizes she's navigated around a large construction back-up, saving them time.
GINA: You do what you do, I do what I do, right?
MARTIN: What do you do, when you're She laughs. He smiles, nods. Okay, dumb thing to say.
GINA: It's okay. I know what you Her eyes meet his in the mirror. She swings the taxi onto Wilhelmstrasse. Stops at a red light. Ahead, the Marshall Bridge over the River Spree.
MARTIN'S FACE: Strangely serene. Intense vivid IMAGES. the playing card 'ACE TAXIS' logo on the dash. GINA'S EYES in the MIRROR. Silent free-fall dive. Timeless. Dreamlike.
PARAMEDIC: WHOMPF! The charge surges into Martin's body.
BLACK: .A man's voice. distant. German words. Small, faded image of a German DOCTOR, speaking with the nurse.
BLACK: .again, a pin-hole of consciousness. The Nurse, taking a private moment, speaking in German on her cell-phone. The Nurse looks over, straight at us, realization in her face, she hurries from the room. We REVOLVE. finding. MARTIN HARRIS. Arms by his sides. A few days beard. A sutured cut on his temple. His eyes fluttering, barely open. then closing. Clipboard beside the bed. An admission form. In German. Where Martin's name should be: "unbekannte maennliche Person", and the SUBTITLE becomes our MAIN TITLE.
FARGE: Wenn Sie mich horen konnen, blinken Sie zweimal. He watches as Martin's eyes tilt. Look directly at him. A sound. A dry croak. slowly forms itself into speech:
MARTIN: I. I don't. speak German.
FARGE: ( beat - accented ) Are you English?
MARTIN: . American. A beat. Farge signals the Nurse to come in. Speaks to him slowly and clearly in English:
FARGE: My name is Doctor Farge. You are in the Waldfriede Hospital. I'm the head neurologist here. You have been in an accident.
MARTIN: Martin. Harris. Doctor. Martin Harris. Farge exchanges a look with the nurse. To Martin.
FARCE: Where are you staying? Is there anyone here, in Berlin, that we
MIGHT: Martin suddenly looks around, struggles to sit up.
MARTIN: My wife.. ?
FARGE: Doctor Harris, it's all right. The taxi you were in went into the river. You were the only passenger. Your heart stopped for six minutes. It is Thursday, November 27th. For four days you have been in a coma.
MARTIN: Thanksgiving. but my wife. she's in Berlin with me. Where is she? Why isn't she here?
FARGE: We didn't find any identification with you, Doctor Harris. the driver, who saved your life, disappeared soon after the accident and no one else has come forward. I must apologize, but we had no idea who you were. It sinks in. Martin shakes his head wretchedly.
MARTIN: Oh, Jesus. Liz doesn't know. She'll. she'll be worried sick.
FARGE: Calm down, Doctor Harris, please. Where can we reach your wife? Does she have a cell phone?
MARTIN: Yes. yes, she does. it's. I can't remember. His voice trails off. A long beat. Farge asks gently:
FARGE: Can you tell me what you do remember, Martin? Do you remember what day it is? A beat. Giving it thought. then:
MARTIN: Thanksgiving. You told me that. I remember. almost everything. But I don't know how I got here. Another beat. He shakes his head. Scared.
FARGE: It's called retrograde amnesia. With severe trauma of this kind, memories get lost, or fractured. Most return. although it's unlikely you'll ever fully recall the events around your accident.
MARTIN: Yes, yes. okay.
MARTIN: My wife.? Meine Frau. ? Beat. The nurse shakes her head, apologetic. Martin watches a FAMILY, a wife and children, pass his door, visiting another patient. He turns his head, stares at his belongings.
DOCTOR!!!: INT. EISNENHOWER SUITE, HOTEL IMPERIAL A high-end suite, empty, but with the signs of someone staying there. The phone rings. and rings.
FARGE: you have to realize the risk
MARTIN: Doctor, I've been gone for four days. My wife is out there, in a city she doesn't know. She must be terrified. I need to find her before
FARGE: Let me call the hotel again. We can leave a message.
MARTIN: Yes, fine, but look, I know her. She's looking for me. You're married, aren't you? What would you do? Farge tracks his own wedding band. A long beat. He sighs. Not happy about this at all.
FARGE: This is my card. Any nausea, dizziness, difficulty with speech, you contact me immediately. Do you understand?
MARTIN: INT. EISENHOWER SUITE - CONTINUOUS . hallway leads into the spacious sitting room. No one there. Draped over a chair, Martin recognizes Liz's jacket. Martin smiles, blinks against tears, he's home. Sound of MOVEMENT from the BEDROOM DOOR.
MARTIN: Liz! I'm here, I. A HOTEL MAID appears from the bedroom door. Startled as she sees Martin.
MAID: Ah. Entpfang. reception.
GUARD: Excuse me, sir. Do you have an invitation, sir?
MARTIN: No. I mean yes. Distracted, still looking at passing faces.
STRAUSS: Dr. Harris. Do you have any other identification? Passport? Drivers license?
MARTIN: I've already told this gentleman, I've been in the hospital. I was in an accident. Martin sees someone through the crowd.
STRAUSS: I'm sorry, sir.
MARTIN: That's Professor Bressler, right there. He knows me, he can confirm who I am.
STRAUSS: If you would be patient, sir.
MARTIN: No, I'm done being patient. Martin stops short. Staring past them:
MARTIN: Seeing her. The look on his face. Processing. an overwhelming mixture of confusion and relief.
STRAUSS: Excuse me Madam. Your husband is here. He needs to
MARTIN: Liz turns fully. That beauty. A flash of surprise as she sees Martin. His clothes. The suture on his head.
LIZ: Excuse me. do I know you?
MARTIN: Liz.? Please. It's me.
LIZ: And just who might 'you' be? Amused whispers. Martin, bewildered, growing angry.
MARTIN: It's me. Martin. Your husband. Liz half smiles, glances around. Is this a joke? To the security guard, flustered:
LIZ: This is a. misunderstanding. I. I don't know this man. This is my husband. Martin. She calls to a MAN nearby engaged in conversation. Mid-30s like Martin. Elegant, groomed, athletic. conspicuously more handsome in a chiselled way. Know him as MARTIN B.
MARTIN B: ( COMING OVER )
STRAUSS: You are Dr. Harris?
MARTIN B: Last time I looked. He checks his name tag. There it is: 'Dr Martin Harris.'
MARTIN: Is this some kind of a joke?
LIZ: What are you talking about. ?
MARTIN: because it really isn't funny.
LIZ: joke about what?
MARTIN: Do you have any idea what I've been through?
LIZ: No. I have no idea what you've been through.
MARTIN: I've been in the hospital for four days! Where were you? Were you even trying to find me ?! Moment's strained silence. Strauss unsure what to do, signaling a guard. Martin B steps in.
MARTIN B: Look, You seem like you've had an accident, or perhaps
MARTIN: who the hell are you!?
MARTIN B: Okay, okay. Can you please just get him out of here? Martin rounds on Martin B. Jabs a finger.
MARTIN: You. Whatever you think you're doing, you need to stop it.
STRAUSS: If you don't leave now, sir, we'll have to call the police. Martin pulling free, steps away.
MARTIN: ( loud, sardonic ) Great! That's the first good idea anyone's had. Call the police. Call the God damn Army!
MARTIN: There! Right there! ON THE VIDEO: Slowing to real-time. Liz, arriving at reception, speaking with the Receptionist, gesturing outside.
STRAUSS: As you can see. you're not Martin STARES at him, helpless. The Older Detective hangs up the phone.
OLDER DETECTIVE: Immigration confirms the arrival of a Doctor and Mrs. Harris on November 23rd at 16.37. An hour later they checked into their suite at the Hotel. Martin breathes in. Chooses his words carefully.
MARTIN: He's not Martin Harris. I am Martin Harris. The man downstairs is pretending to be And this impostor. may I ask? Did he also steal your wife?
OLDER DETECTIVE: And this impostor. may I ask? Did he also steal your wife?
MARTIN: He's forcing her. he must have
STRAUSS: but why? Exactly? .Why? There's no answer to that. Martin looks down. A beat.
MARTIN: This. this is insane. He stares at their faces. He calms himself, trying to get a grip. A memory resurfacing.
MARTIN: it's Thanksgiving. no one's going to be there till Monday. ( racking his brain ) Rod. Rodney Cole. he's a colleague. A friend. I know his number. 603-389-4457. Female detective dutifully dials the number. RINGING again. CLICK of a machine. Then a jovial male voice:
MARTIN: Professor Bressler, talk to him. He's why I'm in Berlin.
STRAUSS: You want us to disturb a Nobel prize winning scientist, simply to attest to your story. when no crime has been committed?
MARTIN: But it has!. That man has taken everything from me, don't you see? You have to arrest him.
STRAUSS: For what? Entering the country legally? Presenting all the correct documentation? ON ONE OF THE MONITORS: A view of the Rose Room: Liz and Martin B visible in the corner, dining.
MARTIN: ( EYES GLUED )
OLDER DETECTIVE: Even if she is your wife, sharing a room with her is not illegal. Not in Germany.
FEMALE DETECTIVE: ( German, subtitled: ) Look at her. Soon we'll have twenty more men claiming to be her husband. The room tries not to laugh, can't help smiling. The monitor image flips, now just a corridor.
MARTIN: ( COLD )
OLDER DETECTIVE: Listen. you have no proof you are even American. We can arrest you only for that.
MARTIN: I told you, I was in an accident. I lost. I lost all my Wait, what are you doing.? The Female Detective listens to the radio response, nods to the Older Man who checks in with Strauss.
OLDER DETECTIVE: On Monday, you can speak with a lawyer. Tell him who you are. The Older Detective confers with the Female Detective. ON THE MONITORS: the image from the Rose Room reappears: Liz and Martin B visible: laughing, drinking. Martin's gaze darts, panicked: The image. The detectives. Strauss. Martin. coming to a decision.
MARTIN: ( low, pained ) I'm sorry. you're probably Faces look over, interested.
STRAUSS: So. now you are saying that you are not Dr. Martin Harris? ON MARTIN. Eyes tight. Point of no return.
MARTIN: I. I don't know.
MARTIN: His gaze FIXED on them as the cab starts to move again.
MARTIN: Wait! Stop! I've changed my Martin thrusts a few bills forward, steps out.
MARTIN: Rodney it's me, Martin. Rod, I'm in Berlin for the conference, but it's Liz. She's. I'm in trouble, Rod. Phone issues a DEMAND for more money. Martin fumbles for change, drops a crumpled ball of Euros into the GUTTER.
WOMAN: Fur Reisepaf3. passport. A beat. Martin looks at her, helpless. The woman sighs. Pushes back his money.
MAN: ( German, subtitled: ) Please! Hold the door! He's mild-faced, glasses, carrying a shopping bag in one hand. He FROWNS as Martin does nothing to stop the door. The two men stare through the glass as the train begins to move. The man shakes his head: foreigners.
LIZ: Are you ready.?
MARTIN: Are you going to give up?
MARTIN: Can I help you? Hello? The guy points to his headphones, shrugs. Martin STARES at his screen, ears listening for the tell tale sound of music seeping from the earbuds. nothing. Martin rises suddenly, looks to the bored ATTENDANT who nods towards the back. Martin moves past college kids on Facebook, to a dim back corridor, a door marked "Manner," and what's he's looking for: a back door, cracked.
BIKO: He says he doesn't care if she saved your life. the bitch cost him 20,000 Euros. the insurance won't cover the cab because she had no license. the driver who was letting her moonlight in his taxi, skipped town. The depot manager's rage reaches a Hitlerian climax.
MARTIN: So. I'm guessing he doesn't know where she is.
BIKO: ( SMALL BEAT )
MARTIN: Please thank him for his time.
BIKO: Hey, American. I'm sorry we couldn't help you
MARTIN: You know where she is. You paused. I could tell.
BIKO: Solomon. Solomon Obiko. My friends just call me Biko.
MARTIN: Martin. Martin Harris.
MARTIN: You remember me. You know who I She finishes the Turkish coffee, starts another.
GINA: I don't drive a taxi. She takes the two drinks towards a table. He follows. Across the room, the owner eyes them.
MARTIN: No, you do. I was in your taxi, we crashed. Why did you leave? Why didn't you talk to the police? Hey! She puts up a hand, calming him.
GINA: Okay. Okay. How did you find Your friend, Biko. ( cutting her off ) It's not his fault. I told him I had money for you.
MARTIN: Your friend, Biko. ( cutting her off ) It's not his fault. I told him I had money for you.
GINA: Do you?
MARTIN: No. I mean, not now. I Gina laughs, shakes her head, tries to push by him. He gets in her way. Eyes from around the room track.
GINA: ( MOVING AWAY )
MARTIN: Yes, crazy. but it's true.
GINA: What do you expect me to do? I'm an illegal, driving a taxi without a permit, in an accident without insurance. If the cops catch up with me they'll throw me in jail. If I'm in jail, I lose everything, understand? If I'm in jail, they deport me.
MARTIN: You're not listening to me
GINA: No! It's you who is not listening. You're an American. Go to your fancy embassy. Go to the Police. There a million people here who will help you.
MARTIN: But you know who I am.
GINA: No, I don't. What's your name?
MARTIN: Martin Harris, Doctor M
GINA: Okay, fantastic, you're Martin Harris. You're whoever you say you are. Yes, I picked you up and we crashed. It doesn't mean I know who you are! She backs off, a hand raised against him. He STARES after her, the truth of what she's said hitting him.
MARTIN: ( SUDDENLY )
GINA: ( beat, softening ) To the airport. Arrivals. You were in a hurry.
MARTIN: But I'd just arrived. It doesn't make any sense. She raises her hands, enough. He looks at her, takes in the bruise on her face.
GINA: You'd have done the same.
MARTIN: No. You can't be sure how you'll act. Not until something like that happens.
GINA: Well. I know me. I jump in without thinking. It causes me lot of trouble. She looks up at him. Meets his eyes square for the first time. Then.
SPIEGLER: ( not looking up ) Have you contacted your Credit Card companies?
MARTIN: No. You don't understand. As I explained to the last guar who went home by the way it's not about Credit Cards. Someone has taken over my identity. Someone is pretending to be me. Here. In Berlin. Spiegler nods, sensing this won't be an easy one.
SPIEGLER: Did you contact the local Yes. They. They believe the other man. I need a new passport, papers to prove Spiegler sighs, a mixture impatience and sympathy.
MARTIN: Yes. They. They believe the other man. I need a new passport, papers to prove Spiegler sighs, a mixture impatience and sympathy.
SPIEGLER: Why do they believe the other Because. Because my wife. He's staying with my wife. They must be forcing her Spiegler suppresses a small laugh, looks away.
MARTIN: Because. Because my wife. He's staying with my wife. They must be forcing her Spiegler suppresses a small laugh, looks away.
SPIEGLER: Do you know, the things people will do to get a US Passport.?
MARTIN: Monday?! They've kidnappedmy wife. You need to find out who this other man is, you need to be in contact with my wife Spiegler exhales, cuttint Martin off. He picks up Martin's Rolex, glances at the initials. Looks at his copy of 'Horticus', the inscription on the inside cover. As he does, a slip of paper comes loose, Martin picks it up.
SPIEGLER: You understand, we're not a detective agency, we. Spiegler stops, sensing Martin isn't listening anymore. Martin's staring at the slip of paper where on one side is scribbled: "28th. Bressler. 12.30 pm."
MARTIN: I have a meeting with Bressler.
SPIEGLER: ( COLLECTING THINGS )
MARTIN: ( COLLECTING THINGS )
SPIEGLER: Hey. Martin Harris. Here. Martin takes it.
MARTIN: Excuse me. I need to find Professor Bressler's lab. I have an appointment at 12.30. I'm The female RECEPTIONIST behind the desk consults her screen. Beat. Frowns.
RECEPTIONIST: Your name please?
MARTIN: Dr. Martin Harris. The professor knows who I am. We scheduled this meeting weeks ago.
RECEPTIONIST: The professor knows you?
MARTIN: Well, we haven't met, but we've been corresponding. He invited me here to discuss my thesis. Dr. Martin Harris. She frowns, rises from the desk.
RECEPTIONIST: Wait here please.
MARTIN: Is there some sort of problem? No answer, she disappears into a back office. Martin shakes his head, exasperated. He scans the building plan on the wall. 'Bressler. L.P - Molekulare Botanik - 305'. Suddenly about-turns, heads for the stairs. The woman out of the office. SEES him.
RECEPTIONIST: Nein. eingang ist verboten:
BRESSLER: It's puzzling, one wonders how Bressler stops talking. Stares past Martin B at MARTIN, heading toward them down a corn row, eyes burning.
MARTIN: Professor Bressler. Martin B turns, sees him. His eyes harden. But it's Bressler who speaks first. Alarmed, indignant:
BRESSLER: This laboratory is a restricted area. Who are you?
MARTIN: It's all right, Professor.
MARTIN B: What the hell are you doing here?
BRESSLER: You know this man?
MARTIN B: how did you get in here? Are you absolutely out of your mind?
MARTIN: Professor. He is not Martin Harris. I am Martin Harris.
MARTIN B: oh, Jesus. A phone RINGS somewhere in the room. It's picked up.
BRESSLER: So what is this? Some sort of hybridized propagation? There are two Martin Harrises?
MARTIN B: No. let me explain. This man showed up at the hotel last night. Security had to remove him. The police were called.
MARTIN: I called the police, you sonofabitch !
MARTIN B: seems he checked himself out of the hospital. He was in an accident of some sort. . one of the research students CALLS to Bressler in German. Martin catches the word "polizei". A surge of panic. He looks around. Sees a straw he can grasp at.
MARTIN: Drakea Drakensis. Miss Drake was wrong. . the PLANT SAMPLE on the table behind Bressler.
MARTIN B: I don't believe it! You've been listening to my calls? Just who the hell are you?
MARTIN: I said I'd like to do the same for my kids. You talked about your children. Two girls. right? Yeah. their His voice falters. tails off into silence. Searching his memory. Expression shifting to one of panic.
MARTIN B: . Laurel, and Lily. Martin frozen as Martin B goes on.
MARTIN: No! That wasn't you. Don't you remember? We spoke of how brave our wives were to marry -
MARTIN B: to marry scientists. I told you about our honeymoon
MARTIN: ( OVERLAPPING )
MARTIN B: THE ECOLE POLYTECHNIQUE. MARTIN B ( CONT'D ) MARTIN but she insisted and . but she insisted and that's how I first saw that's how I first saw Leonardo's Vitruvian Man! Leonardo's Vitruvian Man!. A beat, a breath. Bressler looking between them. Wow.
MARTIN: I. this isn't happening. . the POLICE suddenly there. Two OFFICERS. Bressler signals for them to stay back. Martin lifts his eyes.
MARTIN B: I can't believe I need to do He reaches in his jacket. Produces a passport. Martin B's face. Dr. Martin Harris. Then he opens his wallet. Credit cards, New Hampshire driver's license. a PHOTOGRAPH in the wallet's plastic sleeve.
WHITE LIGHT: Flickering like a candle in darkness. Suddenly CLOSER. BLINDING. Voices behind the light. A distorted form slowly TAKES SHAPE. A familiar bearded FACE.
FARCE: The police brought you here. The mistake was mine. I should never have let you leave. Martin blinks, bleary. Farge talks briefly to the nurse in German. She nods, starts prepping a hypodermic at a table. Farge looks back to Martin. Explains gently:
MARTIN: Doctor. Do you know what it feels like, to become insane?
FARGE: ..There is quite a lot of literature on the subject. But finally, I would say it's a
SUBJECTIVE: I can tell you. Martin looks over, Farge almost RECOILS at the intensity in Martin's eyes. Fear. Loss. Anger.
MARTIN: I can tell you. Martin looks over, Farge almost RECOILS at the intensity in Martin's eyes. Fear. Loss. Anger.
MARTIN: his mind struggles to compute. The sudden overwhelming realization that he's not insane. This man is HERE. His eyes DART as the other orderly glances over, the man from the train tunnel. Call him SMITH. He smiles at Martin, polite, nondescript. Ghostly in his disinterest.
JONES: Hello, Martin. This won't take very long. Martin tries to raise up but can't move his arms and legs are like lead. He opens his mouth to call out, his voice barely a murmur. His eyes lock on the IV bag, the steady drip. drip. down the line into his body. The two men quickly lift Martin, hefting him face-down onto a gurney. One arm dangles.
NURSE: ( German, subtitles: ) Excuse me, where are you taking this patient? Martin's vision RACKS, traces the Nurse's white sneakers, standing in the now open doorway to the room. Martin STRAINS to yell, to speak, nothing. He can just move his head enough to eyeball the IV. Drip. drip. drip.
JONES: ( German, subtitles: ) We have instruction to move this patient to the American Hospital at Wiesbaden. Here are the The rustle of paper. Martin CONCENTRATES, eyes on the IV tube, hanging between the bars of the gurney and his arm. Great Effort, He LEANS, pinching the tube closed. CLOSE ON THE IV: The drips. stop.
NURSE: ( German, subtitles: ) I'm surprised I wasn't informed. Let me check with A SOUND, like paper torn quick. and THE NURSE FALLS TO THE FLOOR, STARING UP AT MARTIN,
DOCTOR: ( German, subtitles: ) You two. We need help!. Right ( off their hesitation )
MARTIN: . pulls himself upright. Tries to stand, but his body is like Jello. Reaches out, grabs the leg of a steel equipment trolley which TEETERS. CRASHES to the floor, showering Martin with a CASCADE of instruments and dressings.
MARTIN: It's okay. I'm fine. Paramedic would do something, but his colleague's YELLING at him to hurry. Just has to watch Martin go.
FARGE: .The man's condition was unusual, yes. But there was nothing to indicate violence.
OLDER DETECTIVE: Is he still dangerous? Farge watches the Coroner wheel away the Nurses's body.
FARGE: To someone who threatens that fantasy.? Yes. I believe he INT. S-BAHN - NIGHT Metro train car almost empty, save for a few noticeably down- at-heel passengers. Martin looks up at the map.
JURGEN: Alles in ordnung, Frau Brunner. He smiles. Frau Brunner retreats back behind her door. Jurgen turns to Martin. Eyes reading him.
JURGEN: Siegler used to work for me. Did he tell you that? His laughter becomes a COUGH that racks his body. Lets it pass, before ushering Martin into a tiny living room.
MARTIN: That's where Spiegler worked for you? The secret police?
JURGEN: A true believer, like the rest of us. Now look at him. I should have had him shot. Another laugh, more COUGHING. Hands Martin a brandy.
MARTIN: I always have it with me. It was a gift from my father. Jurgen flips it open. Notices the inscription, the NUMBERS written inside the front endpaper. A beat.
JURGEN: These mean anything to you?
MARTIN: No. It's my wife's handwriting.
JURGEN: So, they mean something to her. He looks to Martin. Direct.
MARTIN: My schedule. for this week. It's everything I remember. Jurgen turns over the card. German print. A cheery cartoon Uncle Sam: 'Uncle Sam's Bowling & Billiards'.
JURGEN: Passport, credit cards, family photos. things like these take time to prepare. You say this man has detailed knowledge of your research, of your relationship with.
MARTIN: Professor Bressler. He knows Including the fact that you were going to have a random accident that would allow him seamlessly to take your place? These people may be good, but they're not God. The question is, why would they want to take your place? What could they gain from being you?
JURGEN: Including the fact that you were going to have a random accident that would allow him seamlessly to take your place? These people may be good, but they're not God. The question is, why would they want to take your place? What could they gain from being you?
MARTIN: They tried to kill me.
JURGEN: Yes, did you a favor I'd say. Now you have. Redlichkeit. Now you know you are right.
MARTIN: Do you believe me? A beat. Jurgen pours them both another brandy.
JURGEN: In the Stasi, we had a basic principle: Ask enough questions and a man who is lying will eventually change his story. But a man who tells the truth cannot change his, however unlikely his story sounds. I believe you are telling the truth, Doctor Harris. A long beat. Jurgen closes the notebook.
MARTIN: of money. ?
JURGEN: Yes. Of money. Martin takes off his Rolex. Sets it on the table.
MARTIN: It's all I have. I'll pay you in cash as soon as I can. Jurgen nods, picks up the watch. Turns it, looks at the engraving on the back. As Martin turns to leave.
JURGEN: Doctor Harris. A wince of pain as Jurgen gets up. Lifts a tea tin off the shelf. Opens it. Takes out a hundred Euros.
MARTIN: Thank you.
JURGEN: I'll need twenty-four hours. Call me tomorrow afternoon. Do you have a place to stay? A long beat. Off Martin's FACE.
GINA: ( Turkish, subtitled: ) Hey, friend. We're closing. The man looks up: It's Martin. He's exhausted, wet. His eyes full of need and fear.
MARTIN: I'm sorry. Please. I had nowhere else to go. She starts to respond, holds it back. Nods.
GINA: I know the feeling.
MARTIN: I just need to know. The man you picked up, the man who's life you saved. That was me, right? It was me. She looks down at him, moved. Eyes track his wedding ring.
GINA: You're married. What about your I. don't know.
MARTIN: I. don't know.
GINA: It was you. Martin Harris. You.
MARTIN: ( NODDING )
GINA: Don't be an idiot. Come on. He hesitates, then lets her lead him out of the cafe. In the corner, the owner watches them go. The TV NEWS changes, flashes a special. The Owner looks up: ON TELEVISION: Martin's face, caught by a camera at the hospital. Juxtaposed next to it, a smiling picture of the Nurse. German text scrolls: "Wanted for Murder." The Owner's hand moves, picks up the phone.
GINA: So, how long are you married?
MARTIN: .Five years.
GINA: Where did you meet her?
MARTIN: Yale. I was a teaching assistant. Liz heard me lecture.
GINA: And there's no way she just didn't. recognize you? He shakes his head. They reach the cement steps of an overpass, climb.
MARTIN: .You don't have to believe me. It's crazy, I know. Gina pauses, stares through chain-link at the cars below.
GINA: Everyone has a story. Where they came from, where they are going, what happened to them. Why they're not happy, or ( l ooking over ) Who cares what I believe. It's bullshit. All that matters is. ( pokes his chest ) Who you are, what you do, right She reaches in her jacket. Opens the notebook she was writing in. Columns of figures.
MARTIN: I'd still have my memories.
GINA: You see? We're different. You like your memories. very American of you. He nods. She shrugs, turns away.
GINA: Thank you. He takes a sip. Then another. Gina watching him. Muffled TV and arguing VOICES in Turkish from the floor below.
MARTIN: Thank you. He takes a sip. Then another. Gina watching him. Muffled TV and arguing VOICES in Turkish from the floor below.
GINA: The walls are made of cardboard. but it's home. Another smile, tired. A long beat. Abruptly, Gina gets up and leaves the room. Sound of drawers opening.
CAFE OWNER: ( German, subtitled: ) You guys are quick. The BADGE lowers. It's Jones. Looks utterly nonthreatening, plain. But the Owner's voice falters.
GINA: ( CALLING OUT )
MARTIN: Oh. I'm sorry, I just. I'm sorry. Did you do these?
GINA: I give you a place to stay, it doesn't give you the right to
MARTIN: No, you're right. ( putting them back ) I'm sorry. They're beautiful. You should
GINA: I should what? Have been an artist? Perhaps in Bosnia. ( beat, quoting him ) "Can you imagine what it's like, to wake up one day. And your whole life. has been erased?" He STARES at her, moved. That connection again. He looks away. Looks back again.
MARTIN: Your eyes. It's the one thing I remember about the accident. Your eyes in the mirror. He tails off. Face-to-face. BANG! BANG! Pounding on the door. Gina motions Martin out of sight as she opens the door. .It's Biko, the soft-spoken Somali taxi-driver. He grins. Tries teasingly to peek past her into the apartment.
BIKO: You got company? She puts her foot against the door, inscrutable. Biko drops a set of keys into her hand.
GINA: You're the best. She pecks him on the cheek. Biko pushes in the door, just a little, but enough to catch Martin, in his undershirt, carrying the rest of his clothes, halfway to the shower.
MARTIN: I'm. I'm just going. in here. Biko looks at Gina, raises an eyebrow.
GINA: Yes, that's right. I sleep with every married American you send my way Thank you for that, by the way.
BIKO: Hey, no need to explain to me.
GINA: Get on your way! Go! She pushes him out, closes the door. The stew has started to SMOKE. Gina moves it off the burner.
BIKO: ( German, subtitled: ) Hey, while you're at it, check the line to number eight. She's always getting bad service. One of the men lifts his face. It's JONES. Biko takes them in, their clothes. frowns.
GINA: Just a moment, Biko. And you're going to be late She throws open the door. SMITH and JONES press in! Jones clamping a hand over her mouth. Watching them work is awe-inspiring, chilling. There's no wasted motion whatsoever. Their faces calm, observant. Jones holds Gina, gun covers the dark entrance to the bathroom where the shower still runs as Smith turns the music up LOUD, then opens the oven, blows out the pilot light, turns on the gas. CLOSE ON THE GAS A hazy layer, rippling over the floor. Smith grabs a candle off Gina's table, lights its wick, sets it on top of the stove.
GINA: Terror-stricken, realizing Martin has abandoned her. Jones nods to Smith who goes out the door, covers the hall. Jones FLIPS Gina onto her stomach, presses her face to the floor, pulling down the top of her pants as he prepares to inject her with the hypodermic. She struggles, SCREAMS IN RAGE, chokes on the gas. Her EYES WIDEN as Jones slides the needle in, starts to PRESS. . CRASH! Martin blasts in from the fire escape, through the window nearest them, catching Jones in the face, cutting his face. He tumbles over his gun sliding away.
MARTIN: No, look! She tracks his gaze: Down below, Jones exits the building, looks up amidst other onlookers. Wipes blood from his face. Martin looks around, wild, for anything, his gaze settling on: the far wall. Flames FLARE in, growing.
MARTIN: We have to go up. He starts to pull her, but she's FROZEN, staring in horror. Martin tracks her gaze: Biko's body, tucked under the stairs. Lifeless eyes stare back.
MARTIN: The keys. Where are the keys? Gina stares at him, lost. Martin reaches into her pockets. Finds Biko's keys. He HAULS broken panes, debris off the car, manages to get it open. He bundles her inside.
MARTIN: C'mon. C'mon. IN THE REARVIEW: The Range Rover, making a U-Turn, heading their way.
GINA: Left ! Turn left. Martin spins the wheel. Taxi swerves across oncoming traffic into a SIDE-STREET. Gina waving frantically.
MARTIN: Running side-by-side. Train horn BLASTS as they cross right in front of it as the Range Rover, cut off, SPINS 90 degrees, races down the tracks alongside it. Martin and Gina scramble across tracks, towards a tunnel. . the Range Rover passes the back of the train. HARD right, over the tracks. Too Fast. The car catches air. . BELLIES down hard onto the next set of tracks. Front tire EXPLODES. . Range Rover SPINS. rear wheels SLAM into the track. Another tire BURSTS. Scraping STOP, car straddling the rails. Jones shifts into reverse. Rims SPIN against metal.
SMITH: Jumps up. Sprints after them. Through the steel door.
UP AHEAD: Martin and Gina, squeezed together between laughing faces, drunken youth, singing, chanting.
GINA: Come on. They push their way forward through the crush.
CHILL SPACE: Even darker, only small glowing lights, candles, neon tubing casts shadows. Quiet almost, only the dull 'thud" of the bass reaches them. He puts a hand on her shoulder. she pushes it off.
MARTIN: ( CONTINUED )
GINA: His family is in Africa. The money will just stop coming. they'll never know why. . Martin calming her, stroking her head. Her hand finding his, gripping it tight, wanting the contact. Martin looking down at the face buried in his chest. Feeling versus memory. Gina. Liz. Torn. A long beat. Her control returning. And her strength. She separates from him.
LIZ: Are you ready. ? Liz rubs dust off his face, leans in to kiss him.
GINA: .Put these on. She pulls a mod shirt on, glances back as he now undresses.
MARTIN: .Yes. I think so. I don't remember. how it felt exactly. She approaches him, leans in so she can see his eyes.
GINA: So why would she do this to you?
MARTIN: .For the same reason I would. If I thought it was the only way to protect her. Gina nods, distant. Martin presses on, difficult.
GINA: ( seems to ignore him ) In Bosnia. It was not like you probably imagine. It was nice. .there were cherry blossoms.
MARTIN: We're you.
GINA: What? Raped?
MARTIN: I won't let anything happen to Liar. Say it again.
GINA: ( SMILES SLEEPY )
MARTIN: I'll protect you. She opens her eyes again, looks up at him, smiles, on her way to sleep.
GINA: CHILL SPACE - LATER Gina sleeps, at peace. Martin leans over the one object he has left, his copy of "Horticus." He studies the number markings on the flap, working.
MARTIN: Thank you for coming. Martin glances around, edgy. Jurgen watches him, glances at Gina long enough to let Martin know he's spotted her.
JURGEN: You know, the most dangerous man in the world is the man who feels that he is drowning. He will drag under anyone who tries to help him. Jurgen sets his newspaper on the bar. A picture and article about the murdered nurse. Martin's picture, fuzzy.
MARTIN: ( nods, bitter ) I. I didn't do it. Jurgen studies him, hard. Looks back at Gina.
JURGEN: You said you had something. Martin feels in his pockets, takes out the copy of 'Horticus', turns to the numbers on the end papers.
MARTIN: These numbers, are a code. The first number refers to the page of a given book. The second to a specific line on that page. The third number to words on that line. If I didn't have the exact edition of the book, the code would be unbreakable.
JURGEN: ( nodding, impressed ) And what do the numbers refer to?
MARTIN: That's where it breaks down the words are the Latin names of two plant species. Calochortus Albus. and Umbellularia Californica. Fairy Lantern. and California Bay. Both common flowering plants.
JURGEN: Not part of your work? Or Professor Bressler's? Martin shakes his head. Jurgen grunts. Pencils notes.
MARTIN: "The role of Gorytini and Thynnidae in Drakea pollination."
JURGEN: And it was after reading it that he invited you here. Correct?
MARTIN: Correct. Yes. Look
JURGEN: Did you ever know someone called Laurence Darnell? Martin looks at him quizzically. Shakes his head.
MARTIN: ( SHRUGS )
JURGEN: So they're not close?
MARTIN: In a way. they're opposites. Bressler wants to end world hunger. Open research. universal access to all his data on crop cultivation.
JURGEN: But Fahad's just a businessman.
MARTIN: They're both progressives. Fahad knows we'll need food long after oil. New agricultural patents are worth billions.
JURGEN: But his progressiveness has cost him. his own people hate him. the attempts on his life.
MARTIN: He's got balls, that's for sure. Another beat. Jurgen slides the 'Uncle Sam' bookmark card from the pages of the 'Horticus'. turns it over, Martin's remembered schedule scribbled on the back.
JURGEN: There's a cocktail party, before Bressler's speech tonight?
MARTIN: It's in our suite. Champagne and hors d'oeuvres for Bressler and a few of his guests.
JURGEN: Is Fahad going to be there?
MARTIN: Yes. Bressler invited him. Martin trails off. Starting to get there.
JURGEN: Martin Harris. with just a few guests, in a confined space with Prince Fahad. For some, that might be a very good reason to want to be you.
MARTIN: Oh, Jesus. You can't Jurgen flips his notebook shut. Gets up.
JURGEN: I need a few more hours. You need to go somewhere you will not be seen. Then meet me outside the Cafe Adler on the Kochstrasse. 6.30 sharp.
GINA: We have to go. We have to do what Jurgen said, stay out of She starts to pull him away, but he's not moving. He's staring at the pre-paid cell phones on display.
MARTIN: Jurgen may have nothing. ( beat, to her ) I need your help.
MARTIN B: Dr. Harris speaking.
GINA: ( INTO PHONE )
MARTIN: Yes, hello, this is Dr. Harris. I have a message for Dr. INT. LIBRARY BUILDING, FREIE UNIVERSITAT BERLIN - SAME Jurgen hands over a library card. A LIBRARIAN finds his request slip, slides two documents across the counter. One a printed monograph; the other a photocopy in brads.
GINA: Why here?
MARTIN: .The zoo. She loves Polar Bears. I never knew exactly why. Gina nods, looks over to the restaurant. Looks back at Martin who hasn't moved. She checks her watch.
GINA: Okay, go. You're going to be late for your date.
MARTIN: This shouldn't take long. I just need to see what Bressler wants. Liz's gaze settles on the painted sign for the zoo.
LIZ: Take your time, I want to see the zoo anyway. ON LIZ. Memory, or nostalgia, touch her cool face.
BRESSLER: I thought we might have a table for three, in case you still had your alter ego with you.
MARTIN B: No, thank God. I assume he's safely back in the hospital.
BRESSLER: Well, it's a lesson. You never know what people will do. All my work used to be on-line, my e- mails on an open server. A year ago, someone broke into my office and stole my computer. I believe they were after my research. Luckily, I split my data up and double encrypt it until I put it all together and make it public. That's why this stays with me until tonight's over. Martin B nods, starts to look at his menu.
MARTIN B: I hope you can forgive me. It was something you said.
ATTENDANT: ( GERMAN: SUBTITLED )
BRESSLER: No! God NO! You're focusing on the science, but this. ( patting his laptop ) .this is history. You open the research before it's finished, the conglomerates gobble it up. In the entire history of human development, name me one time when business has ever acted except in its own self-interest.
MARTIN B: I'm sorry, it's my fault. Another appointment I forgot.
BRESSLER: It doesn't matter. ( jumping back in ) But see you, you say I am too cautious. It's an idiot thing to say. I'm a realist!
MARTIN B: I'm sorry if I offended you, Dr. Bressler. I just
BRESSLER: Don't be stupid. You can't offend me. We are colleagues, this is good discussion. But please, Dr. Harris Power is an animal, all to itself. It adapts, mutates to whatever form will best preserve it. It's always closer than we know. ON MARTIN B, extending a hand.
MARTIN B: .Perhaps you're right.
MARTIN: Standing across from her in this protected space. A strange numbness. Doesn't know where to start.
MARTIN: . Liz. Just that syllable. She stares back, features tense.
LIZ: What are you doing here?
MARTIN: Liz. What's happening?
LIZ: You're crazy you have to leave me alone.
MARTIN: Why ?: I have to know why, Liz. Are they making you do this? Are they threatening you?
LIZ: .How did you find me
MARTIN: The zoo. The Polar Bears.
LIZ: I can't.
MARTIN: You can't what?
LIZ: . can't get out. Can't leave. They'll kill me.
LIZ: I. I can't answer that.
MARTIN: Come with me, right now. We can
RUN: No! They'll kill us both!
LIZ: No! They'll kill us both!
MARTIN: Who are they? She shakes her head, tormented.
LIZ: Please. Not now. Not until we're safe. Then I'll explain everything, I promise. All I want is for us to get out alive. You have to believe me. Urgent look around. Her eyes lock on his.
MARTIN: My case.? She closes on him. A wave of emotion as she's almost in his arms, her hands on his face, searching his eyes.
LIZ: Your briefcase. It got left behind. At the airport. That's why you were going back there. You need to find it.
GINA: Behind the glass of the penguin exhibit. She saw the kiss.
MARTIN: Cuts up a small path rising up from the Polar Bear area. At the top he turns, hiding himself, looking back.
MARTIN: .Nothing he can do now. He turns away, moves to the top of the path where Gina waits for him. They walk in silence.
GINA: She's pretty. Martin doesn't acknowledge. Each face a mix of emotions.
JURGEN: hears the phone START RINGING again inside his apartment. Fumbles in his pocket for the key.
JURGEN: Ja ?
JURGEN: Yes, it is.
COLE: Oh my God. that's unbelievable, the poor man. Well here's the good news I've just arrived in Berlin. yes, I've been teaching in Leipzig, at the Hochschule fur Technik. I came up for the last day to hear Bressler's speech.
JURGEN: ( INTO PHONE: )
THE HALLWAY: Jurgen opens the door. it's RODNEY COLE, grinning. shaking rain from his coat.
COLE: Herr Jurgen?
JURGEN: Dr. Cole. Please, come on in. Jurgen ushers him in. Leads them into the living room.
COLE: ( LAUGHING )
JURGEN: Maybe some coffee? I'm making some for myself.
COLE: I'm good. Thanks. Cole looks around the tiny apartment. Sees the framed photos on the mantel. Looks closer.
JURGEN: The Stasi. In East Germany.
COLE: Wow, wait till I tell my son. He loves all that Cold War stuff. Look at that car. What is that?
JURGEN: A 'Zil'. Suspension of a donkey cart and smelt like a tannery. Vanished as quickly as the Wall. Cole studies the other pictures. Notices Martin's Rolex beside them. Jurgen pours the kettle into his mug.
COLE: So. This business with Martin. A hell of a thing. How did he find you?
JURGEN: Quite by chance, as it happens.
COLE: Sounds like he was damn lucky. So, what can I do to help?
JURGEN: Come with us to the authorities. Help them confirm his identity.
COLE: The authorities? Jesus, it's that bad? A guy comes to you with a story like that. What made you take the case?
JURGEN: Curiosity? Is that all?
COLE: Curiosity? Is that all?
JURGEN: Professional curiosity. There's not much in this world left to interest an old spy like me. Cole's face tightens. his back still toward Jurgen.
COLE: You had fifteen minutes after I called. Why didn't you run?
JURGEN: Where would I run from Section 15, Mr. Cole? I can hardly walk. The edge of a smile, another large gulp of the coffee. Jurgen sets down the cup. He wheezes.
COLE: I want to know how he found you. I want every number, every source you've contacted on his behalf.
JURGEN: And then what? We shake hands and you go away? Cole reaches a hand inside his jacket.
COLE: But we do. The best of us. Jurgen coughs again. Suddenly sways. Puts a hand out to steady himself. Knocking over the mug of coffee. as the cyanide sweeps through him. Trembling hands clasp the edge of table. Building force. Shaking. His piercing eyes never leaving Cole. through the pain:
JURGEN: Tell me. if he remembers everything. What then.? No answer. Jurgen's hands slip. He slumps forward, his head hammering down onto the table. A final convulsion. Then he's still. A long beat. Cole buttons his jacket. Slips on some gloves. Gently lifts Jurgen's head from the table top, rests it on a forearm, as though Jurgen were asleep rather than dead. Restoring some dignity to him. Cole goes to the mantel, wipes off the one framed photo he picked up. Takes Martin's Rolex, drops it into his pocket. He turns, casting an expert eye over the apartment. The legs of the stove. ever so slightly askew. The phone RINGS. RINGS. Cole ignores it, moves forward.
WOMAN: May I see some identification? She looks up. Martin's expression distant.
GINA: He doesn't have any. He was in an accident, that's why the bag was unclaimed.
MARTIN: The combination. For the lock. It's 2. 8. 0. 6. A beat. The woman and Gina both looking at Martin. The woman enters the numbers. The locks pop open. She lifts the lid, picks something up. A pause. then her expression softens. She turns it toward Martin.
THE BRIEFCASE: Filled with personal effects. Sitting on top a US passport. A long beat. Martin's hands unsteady as he opens it.
MARTIN: gazing at it. He runs his fingers over its dock-eared corners, every bump and crease. Looks up to find Gina watching him. A long, awkward pause. She reaches over. Takes the photo from him. Studies it.
GINA: Can you remember now. how you Martin's silence hangs in the noise and activity around them. Gina handing back the photo. He stares down at Liz again as Gina stands, start to collect her things.
MARTIN: .Yes. I'm sorry. Yes. She's my wife. She's in danger. I have to
GINA: ( nodding, auto-pilot ) That's good. I'm happy for you. I have to go.
MARTIN: No, wait. I meant what I said. We can take care of you. I can get you money, arrange
GINA: ( FIERCE )
MARTIN: Gina stops, turns. A beat. Sadness, anger.
GINA: One kiss and suddenly. Everything that's happened? To Biko? To us? I know, she's your wife. Like I said, I'm an Goodbye, Martin. She turns away again. Martin, frozen, watches her go.
GINA: Wait. There's another passenger.
MAN: Martin. Martin.? Martin hesitates, turns. Sees. RODNEY COLE. Beaming smile. Martin stares at him, Jesus, Martin, how are you doing?
COLE: Jesus, Martin, how are you doing?
MARTIN: Rodney? What are you doing here?
COLE: You called me, remember? You left a message on my machine.
MARTIN: Yeah. but how did you know ?
COLE: Stay one step ahead of me. Any move, I'll shatter your spine. His voice flat with menace. Martin's mouth opening.
MARTIN: What are ?
COLE: Martin glancing round. Cole jerks him back, guiding him toward the passenger pick-up zone.
TAXI DRIVER: ( GERMAN: SUBTITLED )
GINA: Help me with my bags, please. The driver goes to fetch the case. Is stopped by its OWNER. Raised voices. Moment's confusion. Then. .the SQUEAL of TIRES. The taxi driver spins around to see Gina gone and his own taxi pulling away. He YELLS after her, furious. But she's off in traffic.
MARTIN'S EYES: dart between Cole and Smith. Heart racing. Struggling to make sense of things. Cole studying him in quiet amazement. Shakes his head. Thinking out loud.
COLE: My God. she's right. You're completely gone. You really think you are Martin Harris.
MARTIN: What the hell Rod! You're my oldest friend! You know who I am. It's me. it's not that other guy. He's not
COLE: Martin Harris? You're right. He's not. He's the guy who took over for you after you went Exasperated, Cole leans forward. Spelling it out.
MARTIN: No. That's insane. Liz, she
COLE: 'Liz'.? Your "wife"? How do you think she feels about all this? You two were a good team, then you go and get Norman fucking Rockwell on her.
MARTIN: That's not. she.
COLE: they aren't real memories. Don't you get it? Martin Harris is a fabrication. but you've one and filled in the caps, invented a whole damn life for him. They could write a textbook about you! Jesus ! Martin's face. Spinning. Refusing to believe. The Van SCREECHES to a stop, Smith gets out pops the doors. The distant sound of the city traffic, a light wind, whistling.
COLE: All that studying. planning. Hell, you even had us take out that kid after we ripped off his thesis. A year of prep and you try to screw it up. . we do everything to bring you back in, but you go on trying to screw it up. Do you know how much time you've wasted? It's Thanksgiving for Christ's sake! I should be eating turkey with my kids, not here cleaning up after some wacko who bumps his head and decides his cover story's for real. Martin's eyes. staring back at him. Crumbling.
MARTIN: But. I. who am I.? A pause. Cole shakes his head, pats him on the cheek.
COLE: You. You were my best boy. .suddenly Cole SLAMS a fist into Martin's stomach. Martin doubles over. Cole WHIPS the gun across his FACE. Kicks him AGAIN. Martin on his hands and knees, spits blood. Cole glaring down at him. Disgusted. Smith covers Martin as Cole moves into the van, empties out a junkie's works: dropper with needle, bottle top, cotton balls, lighter. Expertly cooks up a fix of brown heroin. Draws it into the syringe, glancing back:
MARTIN: Wait! WAIT! Martin breaks free, walks unsteady to the rear of the van, locks eyes with Cole, trapped, clawing towards the back. Martin puts a hand out. and takes his briefcase.
COLE: Caught, the van TEETERING. Sneers at Martin, starts to speak.. Eyes go WIDE as. THE VAN. TIPS. FALLING off the edge, Smith's body going with it. disappears. A moment of calm silence and then CRUNCH! A dull sick crash as the Van hits below.
MARTIN: Stares down at the wreck. Mind spinning. Gina comes up, touches his shoulder.
GINA: He turns, MOVES. She chases after him.
MARTIN: . Jurgen. we were going to meet. I have to see him.
GINA: We've got to go. leave Berlin. We've got to get out of here.!
MARTIN: I have to! Martin's face. Blood streaking in the rain. Absolute. A long beat. Gina takes a deep breath.
GINA: ( CONTINUED )
MARTIN: he told me I'm one of them. the things he said. the things he said I've done. ( beat, anguish ) How can I be that person?
GINA: Listen to me. You're not. You're not. on the wall: 6.15. Martin closes his eyes. Gina reaches out. Quiet. Gentle:
MARTIN: Thank you.
MARTIN: SUDDEN P.O.V. MEMORY FLASH PUSHING OPEN. the door to the Eisenhower suite bedroom. moving through the suite. towards the bathroom.
LIZ: Are you ready.? .and MARTIN ENTERS THE FRAME, hair cut and colored differently. There's drywall dust on his hands and clothing. As he leans to kiss her, we CONTINUE. .INTO THE BATHROOM. to a wall beside the shower. panels cut away, exposed plumbing. Something integrated into the wall behind the pipes. MOVING CLOSER. Semtex plastigue. circuits and wires. dii video timer connected to a high-tech DETONATOR.
GINA: The entry stamp in your passport. You were in Berlin three months Martin, like a statue. Voice, dead.
MARTIN: Prince Fahad is going to be assassinated today. There's a bomb in the suite. I put it A long beat. Gina's eyes meet his, brief, scared. Sudden shift. Martin stuffs the cash back in the bag. Grabs her by the arm, propels them both outside.
MARTIN: Take this. get out of Berlin. Gina shaking her head.
GINA: I'm not leaving you! Listen to me: Maybe you're not the man who went into the water. But you are the man I pulled out. Martin, staring into his reflection on the wet street.
CAN: WHAM! MARTIN LURCHES UP AT GINA! He SLAMS her back against the brick wall, his hand around her neck, cutting off her air, literally lifting her feet off the ground.
MARTIN: ( THE MONSTER )
PASSING INSIDE: Martin, buttoning the last button of the jacket, moves into the hotel. No longer lost. Here to make amends.
LIZ: Your highness. we're honored you could attend this evening.
FAHAD: ( kissing her hand ) The honor is all mine. Liz BEAMS, gestures him into the room filled with a dozen or so notable guests. Martin B engrossed in a conversation.
FARAD: ( to his security ) I don't think the professor needs an invitation. He is, after all, the reason we are all here.
BRESSLER: Now I can see why somebody would pretend to be Martin. Liz laughs, her face lighting up. then chillincj as Bressler's TWO DAUGHTERS appear behind him, smiling shy.
LIZ: .I didn't realize the girls were coming this evening.
FAHAD: But of course. Lily and Laurel are the real reason any of us put up with Leo at all. Fahad bends down and the girls run to him, a familiar face. Fahad hoists one up, takes the other by the hand. ON LIZ. Hard beat. Looking to Martin B who stares back, cool. Liz nods, accepting the casualties. She takes Bressler's coat, reaches for his computer bag.
LIZ: Let me take these. Bressler hesitates a moment, then lets go.
BRESSLER: Separation anxiety. Just leave it there, if you could. He gestures to a sideboard in open sight.
LIZ: Of course.
BATHROOM: Same P.O.V. we've seen in Martin's flashes. SMASH CUT.
SECURITY GUARD: ( German, subtitled: ) Where is Herr Strauss.?
LIZ: Checking on your baby again?
BRESSLER: I can't help it.
LIZ: Why don't you just wear it? As a nerdy accessory? Here, turn Liz picks up the bag. Adjusts the strap. slipping out the Bluetooth. Places the bag over Bressler's shoulders.
MARTIN: You're not listening! There is a bomb, in the Eisenhower Suite. I put it there.
STRAUSS: But isn't that the suite 'you' are staying in, 'Dr. Harris'.? Or wait, you're not Dr.
MARTIN: I've told you! There's no time to explain this.
SECURITY GUARD: She meets the guard's gaze with cool superiority. Her eyes flick to Fahad across the room.
GINA: Are you serious.? Why don't you ask the Prince? The guard hesitates, unsure. it's all she needs. She moves by him, into the room.
MARTIN B: . makes eye contact with Liz across the room, she heads towards the back. He begins to follow. hesitates. He looks back, to the picture windows. Empty now.
STRAUSS: .What exactly are you hoping to Martin ignores him, his eyes TRACKING.
MARTIN: There! Stop! The technician freezes the image: A dapper couple, checking in. He wears a sportsjacket, light-haired, horn-rimmed glasses. She's got short dark hair. Martin points. Strauss leans in, sensing it.
GINA: ( CALLING OUT )
MARTIN: ( QUIET )
STRAUSS: ( German, subtitled: ) Sound an alarm. Evacuate the ( to 2 of his men ) You and-you, you're with me. We'll meet the Prince at the loading docks. ( to a Guard ) You, take him downstairs. Strauss and his men flood out. The guard pulls keys, starts to uncuff Martin from his chair.
LIZ: Stop the timer. I'll finish it. Martin B nods, takes the stairs back up two at a time, shouldering his way past the folk streaming downward.
BRESSLER: Lily! Lily!
GINA: Professor! Over here! Gina at the table she saw Lily at before, lifts the tablecloth to find a frightened little girl staring back.
MARTIN: Lily, Laurel. The smile. dying. Realization.
BEYOND THEM: LIZ, moving purposefully towards the group, closing, her hand in the unzipped top of the sportsbag slung over her shoulder. Glimpse of an oiled-black Uzi machine pistol.
BEHIND THEM: Liz closes, tracking, finger flicks off Uzi's safety.
MARTIN: Gina1 Gina! MARTIN is moving, pressing through crowds.
LIZ: ( LOUD )
GINA: Seeing Martin and Liz, embracing. Confused. Alarmed. Hurt.
MARTIN: Oh, and after you've shot him, point the gun at the Police.
LIZ: Oh, and after you've shot him, point the gun at the Police.
MARTIN: I won't do it.
LIZ: God you're weak. The 'Martin' I knew wouldn't have been able to go on living like you are.
GINA: Martin.? Martin? He STARES at her. Tears in his eyes.
GINA: Also seeing the gun. A hand going out, a scream building.
MARTIN: Bringing the Vun up, pointed at Bressler's head, perfect kill shot. No choice. Finger on the trigger.
MARTIN B: KABOOM!!! WHITE OUT BLAST as the bomb DETONATES. Martin B atomized. Sheets of flame bursting through windows.
LIZ: .Hello, Martin. REVOLVING. to find Martin there. Bleeding, hurt, covered is debris, but holding the gun on her in unsteady hands.
MARTIN: Don't. Keep your hands where I can see them. Please. GROANING from the hotel structure. Plaster and cables fall, SPARK across the floor. Martin FLINCHES, tries to keep steady. Liz is steady, cool. Laughs a little.
LIZ: You know, working with you. it almost wasn't work. We were so good. You, were so good. At the job. At other things. She smiles a little, warming.
MARTIN: Let go of the knife, Liz.
LIZ: 'Liz?'. Don't you want to know y real name? Don't you still want. me? She leans forward, just a breath. Warmth radiating, Martin stepping back.
MARTIN: Please, just stop, Liz. Her face, reading him. His fear, his uncertainty. She smiles, just a little. Liz throws the knife! Martin FIRES as the blade sinks into him, sending him reeling back onto the floor.
MARTIN: His hand going to the knife sunk in his shoulder, SCREAMING in agony as he rips it out, looking up at.
LIZ: A soft distance in her face. A small hole in her chest, just below her beautiful collar bone. Her eyes find him, focus, You'll never know. You'll never know who you are. A long beat. We're not sure when exactly the life goes out of her eyes. Finally, Martin pulls himself forward. Gently closes her eyelids.
LIZ: You'll never know. You'll never know who you are. A long beat. We're not sure when exactly the life goes out of her eyes. Finally, Martin pulls himself forward. Gently closes her eyelids.
GINA: moves through the crowd, anxiously searching the stream of people still pouring from the building. She JUMPS as a hand takes her arm. Turns her. Martin. she stumbles back, hands raised against him. Fear, betrayal, love. Him standing there, empty, bleeding.
TV ANCHOR: Less than twenty-four hours after the failed assassination attempt on the Saudi prince. Image switches to Fahad seated in a PRESS CONFERENCE where Bressler is speaking.
HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS: applauded the announcement, while the Dow Jones saw agri-business stocks plunge four percent. PULL BACK from the TV. one of several in the central CAFE AREA in.
GINA: Hey. Do you know? What you would have done.? He looks back at her, starts to speak. An ANNOUNCEMENT cuts through, their train leaving. They stand, move off.
FADE OUT: Writers : Oliver Butcher Stephen Cornwell
