CRUZ: Baker.  You got it solved? GIN (O.S., from the rear) Actually.  Yeh. CRUZ (glances at his watch) What took you so long, Gin?  I called 4:30 this morn...
GIN: I was with someone, all right?
CRUZ: So?  This is work.
GIN: Hector, I hardly know the guy. Why be impolite to strangers?
CRUZ: Look at those assholes...
CRUZ: If the Vermeer were lying on that table, they'd toss their doughnuts on it.
GIN: Yeh, well, they didn't insure it, so they don't have to solve this. To them it's a crime.  To us it's 24 mil, less re-insurance, which is... CRUZ (grim) Only thirty percent, Gin.
CRUZ: Which is why you're on this.
GIN: He came in through the window.
CRUZ: That's not possib...
GIN: What's not possible is entry through the doors or the vents.  That would have triggered instant alarm.
CRUZ: The windows are wired, too.
GIN: Only for trauma.  They used smart glass, where the sensors respond to violation of the panel's integrity.
GIN: I think he scaled the wall, popped the frame.  In one piece.
GIN: Then, he only had to deal with heat and motion sensors.  They were on 60-second delay, so the owner wouldn't trigger the alarm just be walking arou...
CRUZ: The pane weighs 200 pounds, the building's 1100 feet high.
GIN: This particular guy is the best. The best there ever was.
CRUZ: Popping the frame would trigger the alarm. GIN (gently) I wrote a program and ran it, Dumbo.
GIN: Here's how I figured it out...
GIN: No one arranges flowers like that. It was the draft from the window.
CRUZ: You said.  This particular guy.
GIN: Andrew MacDougal.
CRUZ: Why not Houdini?  Or Pretty Boy Floyd?  Maybe Jesus Christ.
GIN: Because they couldn't do it.
CRUZ: He's been out of the business. For ten years.
GIN: Maybe not.  No one ever proved, hell, even arrested him, for stealing anything.  But we all know he was numero ichiban for thirty years.  Why not forty?
CRUZ: Why?  Because of the Bozo switch? Guys have been copying his pack- rat signature for decades.  Maybe the thief wanted it to look like MacDougal.
GIN: A list of his private collection. Complete to three acquisitions last Thursday.
CRUZ: No Vermeer.  Nothing close.
GIN: Don't be a putz.  This is his legitimate collection, which he buys.  Presentable for any search warrant surprise party.
GIN: What he rips off, he fences.  And the money feeds his portfolio of investments, which are daring, savvy, and obscenely succesf...
CRUZ: Oh, I get it.  He has no interest in Vermeers, so that proves he stole one.  By that logic, he oughta be a suspect most of the time.
GIN: You love to embarrass yourself.
GIN: The auction.  Where our client bought the painting...
GIN (O.S.): Ashcroft Hall, Buckinghamshire, four weeks ago. GIN (O.S., murmur) Anyone we know?
CRUZ: So he was there.
GIN: Staking it out.  Why bid, when you can mark the buyer, and jack it within the month?
GIN: At this moment, he is winging on JAL flight 307 to Narita, ostensibly to attend a prestigious auction at the Hotel Akura, which will include a mixed media collage/oil by Georges Braques, on which he supposedly has his eye.
CRUZ: But you know better.
GIN: Bet your ass.  At Vegas odds.
GIN (O.S.): Research reveals three known fences, still at large, who are believed to have brokered Vermeers to black market buyers.  Sandrine Palmer is hospitalized in Malta with ovarian cancer.
GIN: The other two.  Live in Tokyo.
CRUZ: And you did all this since 4:30 this morning. CRUZ (murmur) Plus.  You were polite to a stranger. GIN (soft and playful) Sounds like you're sorry you're already a friend.
GIN: Uh.  I'm showing off.
MAC: Something of a habit?
MAC: You know the alleged value of this piece from some fucking computer, which has no clue of the price I can turn the scroll around for in 30 minutes.
GIN: No, you can't. GIN (really sorry) It's sold.
MAC: Are you a confederate of my adversaries?  Or are you just stupid.
MAC: Virginia Romay...
GIN: Gin, actually, Gin Romay.  I was named after a card game.
MAC: Or a cheap cocktail. MAC (softly) As in.  I'll have a Gin Romay, please.  With a twist.
GIN: You're supposed to be charming.
MAC: I'm supposed to be selective.
MAC: Art and Antiquities Acquisition Advisor, how alliterative...
MAC: And am I the antiquity?
GIN: In mint condition.
GIN: Look, I've studied you, I know... pretty much...everything.
GIN: Made your first millions selling scrap metal.  Then, gold mining concessions, gems, art, and lately strategic metals for new technologies - platinum, zirconium, titanium...
MAC: You said.  Everything.
GIN: The cat burglar stories?  Why would anyone...with so much to lose...take those kinds of risks?
GIN: You'd have to be.  Stupid.
MAC: Excuse me.
GIN: I didn't know Porsche made things like this.
MAC: Well, they don't...
MAC: ...as a rule.
GIN: Recognize that?
GIN: My seller is in Shinjuku, we can go there tonight.
GIN: He wants 4.6 million.  I can get it for three.
MAC: No, you can't.
MAC (O.S.): ...only it's not bloody
MAC (O.S.): ...it's just that crap Americans call 'football', like you could call your ass a butterscotch scone and have it be one!
MAC: Why you'd want to bring that foolishness to Japan, you're just pissing your investment down a bungee hole. SUMO GUY (major accent) You got Cubano this trip?
MAC: Seriously, put the money into pharmaceuticals or prostitution, something stable.
MAC: Garbage, perhaps.  Or industrial plastics.
MAC: My favorite thing in life. Coincidence.
GIN: I'm staying here, what's your excuse?
MAC: Staying here, as well.  You are in room...? GIN (half a beat) One thirty-eight.
MAC: Will you send a half-bottle of Chateau d'Yquem '67 to Room 138, please?  And some berries and chocolates for the lady to enjoy it with.
MAC: Actually, I was just across the room, dickering with a gentleman over the purchase of an interesting Spitzweg.  Until I determined the painting was apparently stolen...
MAC: Goes against my grain.  The DeKooning in your slide, the 4.6 million you can get for 3.  Can you get it for 2 and a half?
GIN: Sure.
MAC: My checkbook is in my safe.  You wait here.
GIN: Okay.  I'll wait here.
GIN: That's my purse.
MAC: Just want to see if I'm with the person you say you are.  Can't be too caref...
GIN: Are you all right? MAC (subtitled Japanese) I have damaged the car of these kind people.  Please help them call the police... MAC (subtitled Japanese) May I use a washroom, please.
MAC: These are my papers, passport, car registration.  If the police arri...
GIN: You're going to need stitches, let me get you to a hospital.
GIN: Really, this can all wait. I'll handle it.
MAC: That's actually.  Very sweet. MAC (to a guard, subtitled Japanese) Might you have a First Aid kit, of some kind?
GIN: Mr. MacDougal?  Sir?
GIN: Uh.  Mr. Ma... MAC (O.S., from the stall) Just 'Mac'.  And whatever became of a gentleman's privacy?
MAC (O.S.): My God, more females? GIN (subtitled Japanese) Stand outside.  That door.  Two minutes...
GIN: I was worried, it's been twenty...
MAC (O.S.): Eighteen, actually.  The leg is fine, but I got sort of...woozy.
GIN: Woozy.
MAC (O.S.): Lost my stomach once or twice.
MAC: I'm an old man.  You probably noticed.
MAC: You should see me without my teeth.
MAC: Ah.  Mustn't forget to zip up.
MAC: Odd place, this.
MAC: What do you suppose they make here?  Video recorders?
GIN: Microchips, I think, for computers.
MAC: Bad investment.  The best ones are here today...
MAC (O.S.): Gone tomor...
GIN: This isn't the way to my sel... MAC (quietly) I've changed my mind.
GIN: Mind telling me why?
MAC: You can't get it for me at 2.5, can you?
GIN: Well, we can tr...
MAC: You were setting me up.  The correct price is 2.8.  You conspire with the seller to start at 4.6, so I'll be grateful when you 'bargain' him down to three.  Close enough to fool some people.  unfortunately...
MAC: I'm old.  I know what everything is worth.
GIN: So where are we g...
MAC: I am going to the airport.  You are going on to the rest of your life.  Which...
MAC: ...should be interesting.
GIN: You forgot your lugg...
MAC: The hotels deal with that.  The things I need are always waiting at the next one. (afterthought) I don't carry.  Baggage.
GIN: Sensible.  And you're off to...?
MAC: Oh, that's highly personal.
GIN: I did so hope to impress you. GIN (hopeful) I'm still hoping...
MAC: Young lady.  I am old enough to be your grandfather. GIN (soft) My father. GIN (whisper) That's part of the rush. TAXI DRIVER (O.S., racist accent) Still on fo' airport?
GIN: Here.  A reward.
MAC: A reward for what?
GIN: For not being old.  After all.
MAC: You mean.  Not as old as I look. GIN (a whisper) Yeh.
GIN: Do I deserve a reward?
GIN: It's so hard to find good casual sex, anymore.  I'm probably out of practice.
MAC: What's hard to find.  Is someone you truly want to be with.
MAC: Even for awhile.
GIN: It's lucky we stopped by my room, for the wine.
GIN: Otherwise, we'd never have found my bag was stolen.  Until tomorrow.
MAC: Would that make it more stolen?
GIN: They even got my prescriptions.
MAC: Something you need? There are all-night chemists...
GIN: I take Prilosec.  For stomach acid.  And an inhaler.  For asthma.
GIN: But since I didn't have to work all that hard tonight... GIN (softly) Ouch.  I had that coming.
GIN: Why would someone steal Every guest in this place must have more than a wannabe art dealer.
MAC: Ah.  Maybe the thief thought you had something valuable in there.
GIN: Such as...
MAC: Well.  Wannabe dealers make excellent fences.
GIN: He thought I had a stolen painting.  In my bag.
MAC: I'm joking, of course.
MAC: The Vermeer wouldn't fit.
GIN: Excuse me?
MAC: Why, did you do something wrong?
GIN: You said.  Vermeer.
MAC: The most famous painting stolen this week.
MAC: If you don't keep up on your craft.  You'll miss all the jokes.
MAC: I'm so glad I didn't leave Tokyo.
GIN: I love a guy who knows how to sweet talk.
MAC: There was a call.  While you were sleeping.
MAC: An art dealer I know.  He has a Monet.  Minor, but it is Giverny. He'll let me have it for 5.3 million. GIN (cautiously) We can maybe beat that. MAC (pulling plastic from his billfold) I agree.  This is a bank debit card. It gives the bearer access to an account containing 4.6 and change. I dislike round numbers.
MAC: I'd like you to go down there, and pick up the painting.  If that's all right.
GIN: Me.
MAC: If I'm there, he'll haggle.  You just hand him the debit card, with that...luminous smile.  And say, take it or leave it.
MAC: Oh, dear.  I thought you so wanted to make a good impression.
GIN: Thought I already did th...
MAC: And along with making an impression.  You will also make 2 percent of the purchase price.
MAC: That's $92,000.  And change.. For two hours work.
MAC: Any problems.  Just give me a ring.
GIN: Stolen painting is it?
MAC: Of course not.
MAC: If it was.  I wouldn't pay more than three.
MAC'S RECORDED VOICE (O.S.): You have reached the voice-mail of AMD Investments.  And, yes, you are at the right place. GIN (into phone, pissed) I like men with a sense of humor. This does not qualify.
OKATI: You doin' it.
GIN: I think there's some mista...
OKATI: You from Mac?
GIN: I'm from Mac.
OKATI: Lemme see card.
OKATI: Four million, six hundred thirteen thousand, five hundred?
GIN: You first.
GIN: Now bring me the real one.
OKATI: This as real as it gets, lady.
MAC (O.S.): You got it? GIN (into phone) Is this an audition, a joke, or a rip-off?  I'm staring at an obvious forgery, here.
MAC (O.S.): Turn it over.
MAC (O.S.): Is there an envelope?  Taped to the back?  In a Ziploc bag? GIN (into phone) Uh-huh.
MAC (O.S.): Detach the bag.  Read what's in it.  Aloud. GIN (reading into phone) Shikoku Naru, a freighter, it says, Yokohama to Jakarta...dates, statistics...specs on some kind of machine, diag...
MAC (O.S.): Papers envelope back in the Ziploc, very quickly, without seeming to hurry...
MAC (O.S.): Now take the debit card purse, slipping the Ziploc into the purse as you do it, shielding the move from everyone in the room but Okati. MAC (O.S., quietly) Give him the card. GIN (into phone) Mac, the painting's a forg... MAC (O.S., even quieter) This is a test.  Of whether you'll still be alive four minutes from now.  Do you hear me? GIN (into phone) Yes, Mac, I do.
MAC (0.5.): Now.  Hand him the card, and tell him in Japanese to pretend he is checking it by phone.  Tell him to take awhile, as if he's on hold. GIN (subtitled Japanese) Mac says, pretend you're checking this by phone, and take your ti... OKATI (subtitled Japanese) ...like I'm on hold, sure.
MAC (O.S.): While he's checking, look around the room casually, as if searching for the cheesy handbags...
MAC (O.S.): All the while laughing, as if you are chatting with someone you actually like. GIN (into phone) I'm not that good.
MAC (O.S.): As you're looking around, do you notice any m... GIN (into phone) Three guys, two together, one alone.  Cheap suits, not looking at me in a cop-casual way.
MAC (O.S.): Call out cheerily to Okati, in English, 'Where's the toilet?' GIN (into phone) Can I say, 'little girl's room'?
MAC (O.S.): Wing it. GIN (calls out, cheerily)
MAC (O.S.): Get going.  Now. GIN (into phone, as she saunters) Mac, the painting isn't...
MAC (O.S.): You've got what we bought, are you out of their sight?
MAC (O.S.): I know you know how. MAC (O.S., ominous) Are you running? GIN (subtitled Japanese)
MAC (O.S.): Jump. GIN (into phone) It's too small.
MAC (O.S.): The
GIN: FASTER, NOT SLOWER, YOU
GIN: I guess you're gonna explain all this, huh?
MAC: Dry clothes, you'll need them. In five minutes.
GIN: I'm supposed to change?
MAC: I won't look.  Gentleman's word of hon...
GIN: There are a million
MAC: I've seen you naked.  Give the boys a thrill.
MAC: You probably won't be dating any of them, so what the hell. GIN (astonished) These...these are mine!
MAC: Found 'em in your room.  Perhaps the thief wasn't your size.
MAC: We have a business appointment. In four minutes.
GIN: Business, huh? MAC (never turns) Time has come to tell you.  What business.  I'm actually in.
GIN: Uh.  Am I gonna like th... MAC (quietly) I'm a thief.
MAC: And now that I've told you. I'll have to kill you.
MAC: Or...
MAC: ...you can spend the most interesting three weeks of your life.  Training.
GIN: Training for wha...
MAC: ...followed by the most exciting night of your life.  After which, you can walk away with 20 million untraceable dollars...
MAC: ...which will come in handy. Things being what they are.
MAC: From now on.  You can valet park.
GIN: And if I refuse? MAC (very quietly) Don't.  Please.
GIN: I mean, you won't me, I'm far too adorable.
MAC: Last night, at Fujitsu, I did some business.  While you thought I was in the toilet.
GIN: What could you possibly steal in 18 min...
MAC: Thirty-five Each worth one million dollars. And change.
GIN: You hate round num...
MAC: I stole your suitcase when I left you at the bar.  I have since sent it on to the States, with three chips, well hidden.
MAC: Since you aren't there to claim it, the bag will sit at Customs. Safe.  Unless...
MAC: They receive.  An anonymous.  Tip.
GIN: That's entrapment.
MAC: No, entrapment is what cops do to robbers.
MAC: Blackmail.  Is what robbers do to schmucks. MAC (softly) Even adorable ones.
MAC: Pop quiz.
MAC: Admit it's a rush.  The best day of your heretofore drab life.
GIN: Fuck you.
GIN: ...accompanied by related foreplay.
MAN: Nickerson Carlsby, Mr... MacDuff, yes?
MAC: Banquo MacDuff.  This is my associate-fiancee, Ms. Duncan.
CARLSBY: That is...fiancee GIN (cheery herself) I'm a hyphenate.
CARLSBY: Well, it's a pleasure, in this alien place, to do business with a countryman.
MAC: I'm a Scot.  It's a different country.  Culturally and historically. CARLSBY (looking around) Well.  They've brought you to quite the wrong place, I see. MAC (looking around) Thank God. CARLSBY (confidential code-voice) In Penny Lane, the barber shaves another customer...
CARLSBY: Five feet thick with hidden rein- forcements, no way to drill through! GIN (authoritative) Impressive.
CARLSBY: Only the tip of our security iceberg.  See these two Brinks locks...?
CARLSBY: The Captain keeps one key.  The other is continually forwarded: to the Chief of Security at next port.  There is no way to enter during voyage.
GIN: I like this.
CARLSBY: The best armed guard, rotated every six hours.  A redundancy, of course, but we would rather be safe three times over than merely two.
GIN: Sound mathematics. MAC (very quiet) What if there's a fire?  In the chamber.
CARLSBY: Sprinklers.  New design.  Incredible power.  The entire chamber is water- proof, fireproof, airtight.  If the ship sinks, God forfend, your cargo is secure for salvage.
CARLSBY: And your cargo is...?
MAC: Wine.
MAC: The bloody Japs bought up half the premium clarets in the universe. You may have heard.
MAC: I'm in charge of shipping some 14,000 bottles, most quite rare, to a number of premium hotels in Hong Kong, Bangkok, Singapore, Phuket, and Penang.
MAC: All of which are destinations on your October voyage.  Five months from now.  However...
MAC: Wine.  Doesn't prefer.  To be jostled.
CARLSBY: Our 'delicate treasure' platforms, suspended on gimbals.  Your cargo remains unruffled by roiling seas. Then, on arrival, is plucked...
CARLSBY: By that forklift, and gently deposited on dock through the cargo hatch...
MAC: Adequate.  I suppose.
MAC: Did we see...a bathing pool. On deck?
CARLSBY: Oh, yes, sir.  The Shikoku Maru carries sixteen luxury suite pas- senger cabins.  The finest cuisine. For valued clients who prefer to cruise in privacy.
MAC: Mildly.  Interesting.
MAC: Adequate.  I suppose.
GIN: But dearest, in five months, we'll be in Cape Town.
MAC: Anything sooner?  That goes perhaps from...say, Sri Lanka? To Jakarta.
CARLSBY: Why, yes.  In three weeks.
MAC (O.S.): You seem depressed.
GIN: At your insistence, I'm leaping to my death, and I don't know why!
MAC: Because.  You're a greedy girl.
GIN: I'm not jumping until you about this, it's been two days!
GIN: Why are we going in three if the wine is on a different route months lat...
MAC: There us a look at their security.
GIN: I knew that.
MAC: What three weeks.  Now can we jump?
GIN: The machine in those diagrams.  on the back of the painting.
GIN: What does it do, make gold?
MAC: We're nearing the targ...
GIN: Why won't you trust me?
MAC: How do I know who you are, hmmn?
MAC: For all I know, your name isn't Virginia Romay.  Maybe you're a cop.
GIN: Why would a cop do all th... MAC (softly) Entrapment, remember? What cops do to robbers. GIN (just as softly) Oh.  That.
MAC: One...two...
GIN: Mac, I'm afraid.
GIN: Of you. MAC (a murmur) Smart girl.
MAC: Consistent.  And rather impressive.
MAC: All right, six and seven...
MAC: Three and four...
GIN: What the hell are we building?
MAC: A chalet, I think.  Or an outhouse.
MAC: Forty seconds.
GIN: Get your together, man, this is a professional operation!!
MAC (O.S.): This time, when you raise your arm.  Don't breathe.
MAC: Very, very nice.  Had a tour with the Mosad, did you?
GIN: Where does this fit in the game plan?
MAC: Oh, it doesn't.  But one never knows...
MAC: You might need it with me.
GIN: Shit.
GIN: This one, I will
MAC: But you will, you'll get it all. You are actually...
MAC: Quite remarkable.
MAC: Take the rest of the evening off.
OVERLAPPING VOICES (O.S.): ... f...either, personally, I've never liked h...Giants' pitching, once ag...late, you want the Chronicle or don't y...
VOICE (O.S.): Webber Assurance.
GIN (O.S.): This is oh-four-six-one.  Hector Cruz, please, on a secure line.
VOICE (O.S.): Please hold.
VOICE (O.S.): Go ahead, please.
GIN (O.S.): Thank y...
GIN: ...no way I'm telling you shit.
CRUZ (O.S.): Baker, this is an extremely dangerous g...
GIN: ...right now, than he is.
CRUZ (O.S.): You want to explain th...
GIN: If I tell you where this is, you'll send back-up, and those morons will blow my cover, and I'll be too dead to accept your apology.
CRUZ (O.S.): You're fucking him, aren't you?
GIN: Right to the wall.
CRUZ (O.S.): You're over your head, Baker.
GIN: Only romantically.  I'll write to him in prison.
CRUZ (O.S.): Okay, it's your funeral.  Next time I see you, I owe you a spanking.
GIN: Ooooo.  Is that a promise?
CRUZ (O.S.): While you're on secure, do you want a transfer?
GIN: Nope.  I'm headed back to the hot tub.  I'll call again, if I'm in the mood. GIN (subtitled Mandarin) Is it over?
GIN (O.S.): I'm freezing my tender parts.
MAC (O.S.): I'm relieved to hear you have some.
MAC: What's amazing, is that only eleven workers died during construction of this thing... GIN (grim) ...thanks for sharing...
MAC: Of course, the others were saved by a safety net. MAC (loving it) Now, as for the suicides, they always jump facing the city.  Avoids that tall fence about 50 stories down, see it, there?
GIN: I never liked you.
GIN: One act of fucking human kindness...
MAC: Call it a lapse.
GIN: And how does the game pl...
MAC: Oh, it doesn't.  We came for the view.
MAC: To Ginger Baker.
GIN: I'm partial to drummers.  If they played with Clapton and Winwood.
GIN: The prescription bottle.  When you stole my suitcase.
GIN: Armand Baker was my husband, May 13 to October 27, 1982, he played alto sax, I was 17 years old.
GIN: He named me Ginger.  He likes drummers, too.
MAC: And you get sentimental for him. Every time you order drugs.
GIN: I have I.D. in that name.  I use it for various things I don't want traced.  When credit unions turn their computers my way.
MAC: I could listen to you lie all night. GIN (softly) Same here, fella.
MAC: Do you like diamonds?
MAC: You asked.  Does the machine. Make gold.
MAC: Gold is shit.  It's six thousand dollars a pound.  Worth your weight in gold...?
MAC: That would put you at seven hundred thousand.
GIN: Would you pay it?
MAC: When the light hits you just right.  I'd pay more.
GIN: The machine.  That we are stealing. Makes diamonds?
GIN: Real ones?
MAC: Gem quality.  First ever.  God save Japan.
MAC: A diamond reactor takes graphite, runs it through a combination of lasers, electron beams, and scanning- tunnel mg microscopes.
MAC: This one uses krypton-fluorine laser, with a new isotope of krypton.
MAC: The atoms are rearranged.  And the molecule of graphite becoznes a molecule of...
GIN: I hate it.  When you make a point.
STEWARD (O.S.): All right, then.  All set.
STEWARD: We will keep your passports in our safe until Jakarta.
MAC: Of course.
STEWARD: You are Suite 16...
GIN: ...and never been kissed.
MAC: We had booked Suite 9.
STEWARD: 16 is our Tokugawa Suite, far superior, trust me.
STEWARD: You luggage is are your keys, the housekeeper will show you t... GIN (pouting) Oh.  Can't we stroll around the port?  Just a little?
STEWARD: I'd be on board in forty minutes. Just to be safe. GIN (sweet smile) Better safe.  Than sorry.
MAC: Down there.  Ten o'clock.
GIN: Are you dumping fuel?
MAC: Changed my mind.  There's nothing on the instruments downrange.  The longer she flies before she ditches, the less chance they notice on the Bridge.
MAC: You should lose the oxygen tank at 8000 feet.
GIN: And how do I judge that?  Babe's intuition?
GIN: So I just ask you on the way down? Or were you planning to e-mail me.
MAC: I hate a crybaby. MAC (simply) You can do this.
MAC: It's over, it's over...
MAC: Catch your breath, quickly. Hang on for the wake.
MAC: If I were you, I'd watch the desserts.
GIN: Boy, I'll bet you were in shape before you got old.
MAC: Too long ago to remember.
GIN: I can take it from here, thanks.
GIN: If you'd packed my primary chute right, I wouldn't ha...
MAC: Yes, you would.  You're a girl.
MAC (O.S.): Anytime you're ready.
MAC: Better angle.
MAC: You might want to move aside...
MAC: May I trouble you for the torch? Or would you rather just dance.
GIN: I know I packed it.
MAC: Coal into diamonds.  A wealth machine.
GIN: How do you know that's it? MAC (as if stating the obvious) It's 12 by 9 by 7 feet.  And it's the only thing worth waterproofing, in case the ship sinks. GIN (softly) ...you twit.
MAC: Hmmn?
GIN: I'm just finishing your sentence. Can't you answer a question with- out making me feel stupid?
MAC: Why would I bother? GIN (concerned) They don't look like flotation bags... MAC (working fast) Shit.  Well then, let's forget the whole thing.
GIN: Okay, it was a dumb ques...
MAC: Let's get one thing straight.  I don't work with partners much, because basically, I find most people to be idiots.
MAC: You, in contrast, are first-rate.
MAC: And if should start thinking the same. Now move your ass.
MAC: GPS transponder.  Sends a scrambled signal by satellite...
MAC: Precise coordinates.  You could find a golf ball in the Gobi Desert.
GIN: Where you g... MAC (walking away) Fork lift.
GIN: That's MAC (turning back) Unless you've got the keys, someone has to hot wire it.
MAC: Finish up on the floaters.
GIN: Won't they hear it?
MAC (O.S.): Over these engines?  Through five feet of steel?
MAC (O.S.): Hell, if they do, they don't have the second key to get in.
MAC: Thank God for redundant security.
GIN: How many tries do I get? MAC (with effort) One, before I beat you senseless, dump you over the side, and donate your share to charity.
GIN: You gotta work on that impatient streak. GIN (amazed) How professional.
GIN: Uh.  Thing on the left is the brakes? MAC (laconic) Or the thing on the right.
MAC: JUMP, for God's sa...
MAC: You did activate the floaters.
GIN: Activa...
MAC: I did say, 'Finish up on the floaters'.  Surely, you heard me. MAC (softly) Oh.  Guess I did it m'self.
GIN: Um...
GIN: ...I wouldn't do that.
MAC: Excuse me?
GIN: Well...I saw our suction things. Lying...over...there? GIN (a mouse) ...so I put 'em in my pack?
GIN: Or maybe.  I put 'em there.
MAC: I like a quick study.
MAC: ...no matter how many stones we make, the diamonds are just an appetizer. GIN (dreamily) And the meal...?
MAC: My contract.  With DeBeers.
GIN: Oh my G...
MAC: Sensible folks, DeBeers.  A world monopoly in diamonds based on one simple principle...something's only priceless if it's scarce.
MAC: These guys dig up all the diamonds on the planet, just to keep them out of circulation.  Otherwise, you could buy 'em at the Five and Dime...
GIN: Watch the old guy stuff, they don't have dimestores anym...
MAC: Imagine the chaos
GIN: You said 'contract'...
MAC: We're sort of bounty hunters.
MAC: Our machine is worth dead.  Than alive.
VOICE (O.S.): Glad to see you're both alive.
STEWARD: When you missed cocktails. supper.  I thought of knocking on your door...
GIN: Oh, I strangers join us!  Maybe later...?
MAC: Promise you an interesting time...
MAC: Or my name's not Banquo MacDuff.
MAC: ...well, I doing with the rest of your life. But that's your own bloody affair, isn't it?
GIN: Yeh.  Anyway, before you get too choked up on the farewell.  I feel I owe you a confession.
GIN: Time has come to tell you.  What business.  I'm actually in.
MAC: Not here.
MAC: It only looks dangerous...
MAC: You couldn't fall off.  Unless someone threw you over.
MAC: More intimate.  For a confession.
MAC: What business.  You are actually. In.
GIN: Yeh.  I'm not an art dealer.
MAC: Of course not.  You're a cop.
MAC: An insurance investigator for Webber Assurance, your boss is an idiot named Hector Cruz, you've been there four years and ten months, you're quite the rising star. GIN (evenly) Nope. MAC (very softly) Nope?
GIN: I'm a thief, Mac.
GIN: For five years, I've used the database of every client Webber has to plan my jobs.  Museums, banks, jewelers, rich people, I have floor plans, alarm codes, passwords, the works.
GIN: I've made a fortune.  It's not enough.
MAC: Why n...
GIN: Why wasn't it enough for you?
GIN: The Vermeer that was stolen from Hancock Tower?  That was my job. I scaled the building with electromagnets, and parachuted down an air vent...
GIN: ... where we're going next, actua... MAC (quietly) We.
GIN: Yeh, we.  You passed the audition. MAC (a murmur) Imagine my relief.
GIN: I need a partner.  For the biggest, smartest, job.  Ever.  The one you retire off of, because nothing else could ever compare with the rush.
MAC: Ever.  Is such a long time.
GIN: This is a job that can only be done in one place, in one split-second in human history.  If we miss that instant.  We lose.
MAC: And it's worth...?
GIN: Eight eight thousand million.
MAC: How much in shillings?
GIN: You're not a real trusting guy.
MAC: And I tried so hard to hide that.
GIN: It's two jobs.  The first steals something priceless from the National Palace Museum in Taipei.  We don't keep that.  We trade it in for our ticket to the show.
MAC: One moment in time, you s...
GIN: Midnight, July 1, 1997.  Eight days from now.  The moment that Hong Kong is annexed by china.
GIN: 80-20 split.
MAC: Don't be so hard on yourself.  It's your plan, you should take at least thirty perc...
MAC: 50-50.  Or you can swim to Taipei.
MAC: What are you gonna do with six billion dollars that you can't do with four?
GIN: Hold the record.  Alone.
MAC: Your share is 50%.  And one dollar.
GIN: I like what you left.  In the hold.
MAC: You didn't even see wha...
GIN: A lump of coal.  A pair of pliers. A note that said, 'Squeeze hard'.
GIN: Squeeze hard.
GIN: That's Madame Chiang Kaishek, she's my bud.  An evil streak a mile wide.
MAC: No surprise. MAC (gently) Tired?
GIN: I have a lot on my mind.
MAC: You look beautiful doing it.
GIN (O.S.): You wanna buy a Vermeer?
MAC: Rather steal it.
GIN (O.S.): Been there, done that.
GIN: National Palace Museum, Taipei, Taiwan.  Repository of four thousand years of Chinese culture...
GIN: Works of gold, bronze, jade, onyx, pots and scrolls, paintings and porcelains and lacquer work.  Every treasure the Kuomintang could loot before the Reds took over. (beat) Ever rob the place?
MAC: No.  If memory serves.
GIN: You need to eat something, or are you ready for sex? MAC (torn) The options seem so limited.
MAC: Ginny...? MAC (reads) This lovely parting gift can be yours.  If the price is right.
MAC: Good morning.
MAC: Quite a parting gift.  I would have settled for roses.
GIN: It's a joke.  You know, a joke? People who have a sense of humor make them?
GIN: You're rich, go buy an American, have him fill you in on the culture.
MAC: Ah.  American culture.  Well, that is a joke. MAC (murmurs) Relax.  It's only eight billion dollars. MAC (softly) Your Vermeer?  I like this View Of Delft better than the larger one. The sky is more emotionally rendered.
GIN: Nice.  When a sky is that.
MAC: Is it easier now? Not pretending.
MAC: Not pretending you're an innocent. Not pretending you...like me.
MAC: Here's a tip from an old-timer. Never forget who you are...
MAC: It gives you someone to be.  When you stop pretending. MAC (still soft) So.  Our train runs from the museum, through an underground tunnel.  To a mountain.
GIN: Because the museum displays 10,000 relics at any given moment.  But there are 60 times that many, stored in the mountain.
GIN: Which is why it's guarded.  By an army.
GIN: The train shuttles relics to and from storage.  It looks exactly like that.
GIN: I've been down the air ducts four times.  The train always has two armed guards.  Always travels between 32 and 36 miles per hour.  Relics don't like to be jostled too much. MAC (all business now) Your model has five vents.
GIN: We go down the first.  Back up the third, if you're lucky.  If not, we have to get out by the fourth. MAC (simply) Then we will.
GIN: Electromagnets, incredibly powerful. This switch is on-off.
MAC: Seems like overkill.  For one simple jump.
GIN: Well, it's an eight billion dollar jump.  You miss the train...you've missed the train.
GIN: We've got five days to grab the Bones, trade them for the Scan, and pull our 8 billion out of Hong Kong. Once midnight passes on July 1st...
MAC: ...we've missed the train, yeh. The Bones?  The Scan?
GIN: Oh.  Have I neglected to fill in the details?
MAC: An oversight.
GIN: Which I learned from the master. Hey.  Wish me luck... MAC (quietly) Jump sooner.
GIN: Be my fucking guest.
MAC: I'm too
GIN: Know a dude named Wiley Coyote? GIN (softly) Forget it.
GIN: Isn't it easier now?  Not pretending?
GIN: Five years, you won't need make-up.
MAC: We agreed.  No underwear.
GIN: Overkill.  I can do it with legs.
MAC: I'd lose the underwear.
GIN: The Oracle Bones date back to the Shang Dynasty, 3500 years ago. They are writings...carved into ox bones, tortoise shells...
GIN: The oldest Chinese writing any- where, the first proof of Chinese civilization.
MAC: What makes MAC (subtitled Italian) Except it's Chien-lung, mimicking Sung Period.  The color is far too delicate. MAC (subtitled German) It's all right, you have a nice body.
MAC: When you're old, you can do anything
GIN: There we are.
GIN: Last year, ancient artifacts were discovered in the Gulf of Mexico. An Olmec civilization, 3200 years old.
GIN: Amazingly, markings on these Olmec figures were identified as Shang Dynasty writing...
GIN: This less, because it is the one that establishes the link.  Proves that American civilizations descend from Chinese ancestors.
GIN: Exactly the kind of propaganda shit they eat up in Beijing.  The mainland would pay anything to get its paws on th... MAC (old guy voice) SHIT!  BLOODY HELL!!! GIN (in Mandarin, helpful) Those are the coins.  These are my legs. MAC (old guy voice) Amanda!  Time for my pills!
GIN: ...no, I don't think that way.
GIN: ...and I suppose you do?
MAC: Get lonely?  Sure, all the time. It's healthy.
MAC: What's unhealthy.  Is denial.
GIN: Be real.  you could never see yourself...you know, quitting the game.  Settling...down.
MAC: Why, Ginger.  This is so sudden.
MAC: You're in charge of ego and worrying. I'm in charge of keeping you alive.
MAC: These are plasma jet.  All the force is directed forward, instead of dissipating in a sphere like a grenade.
GIN: I don't need th... MAC (whispers) Shut up.
MAC: You don't trust me, you won't get through this.
MAC: Try to adjust to that for three more days.  After July 1...
MAC: ...you'll never have to trust again.
MAC: Something.  To look forward to.
GIN: THEY'VE GOT AN
MAC: I can do this. GIN (through mask)
THERE'S THE NUMBER TWO VENT, ONLY: GIN (through mask)
MAC: WHAT KIND OF A COUNTRY
YOU'RE GOING, MAN!: SOLDIER (subtitled Mandarin) I believe I took your case.
SOLDIER: 21 Old Peak Road.  In 45 minutes.
BUTLER: Will you please come this way?
MAC: I like this.
GIN: You like wha...
MAC: Not being told what the fuck we're doing.
GIN: You're on a 'need to know' basis. You'll get each step in time to execute, I thought you agreed to those condit... MAC (quietly) I like your not trusting me. Because it frees me to do the same.
GIN: I trust you.  I only need to...
MAC: ...remain in control.
MAC: Which is a sign of weakness.
MAC: I like that, too.
GIN: Colonel
QIU: You look lovely, Ginger.  Is the rose for me?
GIN: Of course.
GIN: Col. Qiu Lai Chuen, this is Andrew MacDougal.
GIN: Real names here, darling.  The Colonel and I have every incentive to keep each other's secrets.
QIU: Like the place, Andy?
MAC: Please.  Mr. MacDougal will do.
QIU: This way.  Doesn't matter if we spill.
MAC: My sentiments exactly.
QIU: This place was a gift.  From its former owner.  A Brit whose business will now happily continue to function.  Perhaps...even expand. MAC (spreading his napkin) Planning to spend much time here?
QIU: Tho it has required many sacrifices.
GIN: The Colonel has divorced his wife.  To facilitate the necessary entertaining of Western women.
QIU: Tho some are more entertaining than others.
MAC: Colonel.  You are touching the woman I love...
MAC: From time to time.
QIU: You're a Scot.  Would you like some 25-year-old Macallan?
MAC: Sure, I'll take a case.
GIN: The Colonel told his Minister of Culture that he could mount a surgical raid to liberate this treasure from Taiwan.
MAC: Ah.  How much was the Minister told the raid would cost? QIU (not looking up) Counting equipment, personnel, bribes, an even fifty million American.  All in.
MAC: Which you can now keep.
QIU: He would have paid twice that. But my needs are modest.
QIU: Unlike.  The woman you love. From time to time.
GIN: How do I look, honey?
MAC: Like a woman.  Of mystery.
GIN: In the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank Building.  Is a room with two computers.  One for you. And one for me.
MAC: Glad I have a function, here.
GIN: The room is a vault on the 14th floor.  Access codes to that room are changed daily, computer pass- words on the hour, but...
GIN: codes.  Their retinas will scan to unlock everything.  One of these is China's Minister of Finance.
MAC: And his retinal plate is in there.
MAC: Our trade for the great train robbery.  All right, let's say we're in the door.  Now what?
GIN: Hong Kong has a huge portion of its holdings invested in foreign banks. In hundreds of separate accounts...
GIN: This CD ROM is programmed to send, instantaneously, thousands of instruc- tions, with all necessary confirmation codes, to transfer reasonably modest sums out of those accounts....
MAC: Modest.
GIN: Two or three million at a crack, in odd numbers.  Total, eight billion.  And change.
MAC: And you've set up a laundry.
GIN: Every wire transfer gets rocketed through a series of multiple switches, Austria, Uruguay, Antigua, The Channel Islands, the Caymans... MAC (quietly) Seychelles? GIN (beat) I left that out.
MAC: You're forgiven.
GIN: Thank you.  As soon as each deposit lands somewhere, it's shot somewhere else, til the Mafia couldn't find it.
MAC: But those transferring the 8 billion dollars. They're recorded in the main computer.
GIN: Nope.  The CD instructs the computer to erase the real transactions. And replace them in its memory with an innocuous loan coded XJ6. Little homage to Limeyland, there.
MAC: Dearest.  The reconcile.
GIN: Wrong.  The CD instructs the computer to over-report all account totals forever, in the exact amounts we've lifted.  So the Chinese think the money's still there.
MAC: The money.  Is still.  Missing.
GIN: Sure, the foreign banks know they sent out some money.  But they think Hong Kong knows it, too.  And since we're leaving plenty in every account...
MAC: The shit doesn't splatter.  Until the first account runs dry.
GIN: And brilliant part of the whole thing!
MAC: I was hoping there'd be one.
GIN: Admit it, so far you're blown away.
MAC: It does sound like the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
MAC: Pity it will be over.  In 21 hours.
GIN: Bet you say that.  To all the one-night-stands.
MAC: No, ma'am...
MAC: Only the best of them.
MAC: Nice of the Colonel to provide an invitation...
GIN: Well, I promised him a bonus. Five million.  Comes out of your share.
MAC: ...long as I don't have to have sex with him.
MAC: So all that time, sitting at your computers.  All the research, the access codes your job allowed you to steal, floor plans, schematics... setting up all your bank accounts...
MAC: Years of work, comes down to.... (checks his watch) ...six minutes.  Don't be nervous.  Easy come, easy go.
MAC: Your share prob'ly works out to, what?  Dollar and a quarter an hour?
GIN: What's your point? MAC (very real) That I like you, Ginger.
MAC: The dedication, the skill, the guts...
MAC: I'm going to see you get everything you deserve.
MAC: Woman.  If you can't have fun, right now.  You're in the wrong business.
GIN: Uploading.  And you've got... two minutes, fifty seconds.
MAC: So let's see.  Across town at the British Consulate...
MAC (V.O.): ...everyone is working frantically to complete transactions before they go off-line at midnight.
MAC: ...then, deep in the high-tech bowels of the Bank of China Building, just across the square...
MAC (V.O.): ...the Chinese are sitting on their thumbs, waiting to come on-line at midnight.
MAC: I feel for these boys.  Let's give them a breather, hmmn?
MAC: We'll let the Brits go off-line 4 seconds early.
MAC: And we'll give our new Chinese overlords 4 extra seconds of rest before they have to go on-line.
MAC: Playing God here, Ginger.  We've created 8 seconds that do not exist, anywhere but in this room.
MAC: 8 seconds, where no one is on-line but your little CD-Rom.
MAC: And when, eventually, everyone discovers what transaction XJ6 was really about...
GIN: China will think it happened before midnight.  Britain will swear it happened after midnight...
MAC: They'll each be positive.  The other guy.  Did it.
MAC: Liable to be an ugly international incident.
GIN: Britain off-line in 18 seconds. We're bulletproof.
MAC: Baby girl.  Nothing.  Is bulletproof.  Ever.
MAC: Britain goes bye-bye in 6...
MAC: Feel like a nightcap?
GIN: The CD won't come out of the driver.
MAC: Relax, don't jam it... GIN (jamming it) FUCKING THING!!
MAC: Don't panic, now, there's no rush...
GIN: We can't leave it IN THERE, it's got all our accounts, everything that can NAIL us to a goddam CROSS!!
MAC: Easy with that, there's no ru...
GIN: There's a rush.
MAC: The disc.  Is still in there.
GIN: We can't help it, we...we've gotta...
GIN: What a guy.
MAC: Was wondering where to leave this... MAC (quietly) Time to go.
GIN: They don't know we're the bad guys.
MAC: Time they find out.
GIN: Okay.  How do we get down?
MAC: Down?  I never liked down. GIN (out of breath)
WE'VE GOT ONE MORE GRENADE!: MAC (not)
MAC: You can do this.
GIN: Okay, now what? MAC (absently) Shut up.  You're on a 'need-to- know' basis.
GIN: Mac, I'm sorry.
GIN: Turns out, I'm a screw-up.
MAC: Well.  Something to be said for being self-aware.
MAC: May I have the last grenade, dear. It's about to rain.
MAC: You see, banking democratic under China.
MAC: Well.  No more glass ceiling.
MAC: How refreshing.  The night air.
GIN: I can't do this.
MAC: You can.  If I say so.
MAC: If you stay.  You'll have to pay for the damage...
MAC: Now that split.  Did we say
MAC: Got the keys?
GIN: I thought you could...hot-wire stuff?
MAC: They fix those things so you can't steal them...
MAC: These, they're not so worried.
MAC: Go grab that hook.
MAC: Let me rephrase that. and grab that hook.  Or die...
GIN (O.S.): SHIT!  DON'T
MAC: This only works if you shut your eyes.
GIN: You're not gonna lower me over the side.
MAC: Of course not.  Now close baby eyes... (she won't) Suit yourself.
MAC: Let go NOW!!
MAC: Planning.
MAC: And dumb luck.
GIN: God, I hate you. MAC (softly) Good.  I hate you, too.
MAC: You ran your calls.
GIN: transfers.  It's a miracle.
MAC: Why?  The CD erased the trans- actions, all accounts seem in order.  It looks like the thieves were stopped in time.
GIN: The Colonel says police have nothing.  A man in black-tie, a blonde in a gown.  The elevator guards saw faces, but no mug shots to ID.  I think it's over.
MAC: Except it never is, really. Quite.  Over.
GIN: Well, one hopes not.  The Bristol, huh?  In...Paris?
MAC: You're not going back to Mr. Cruz, and the nine-to-five?
GIN: Not hardly.  I've arranged to be killed in a car crash.  On Taipei. Amazing how little it costs.
MAC: Well.  You want to watch those pennies.
GIN: I could arrange for two.  In that crash.
MAC: You know, for a bitch.  You can be awfully sweet.
GIN: Woman of mystery.  What do you say? I like the Bristol, just fine. mean, it's not the Ritz...
MAC: You know, all night I've been wrestling with something...
GIN: Not the most flattering way to put it.
MAC: I've changed your travel plans.
GIN: Mine.
MAC: Instead of taking the subway to the airport, you change at Jordan Station for Kowloon Tong.  Got that?
MAC: Jordan is only 90 seconds up the line.  Like a wire transfer, you're gone.  Vanished.
MAC: In this bag are passports, tickets, papers.  An amber wig, a good one.  A dress you can slip on in five seconds.
MAC: You're on a tight connection to the Trans-Siberian Express, be in Europe in a week.
GIN: Mac, wh...
MAC: Shhh.  You always talk too much.
MAC: Time has come to return the favor. One last time.
MAC: Tell you.  What business.  I'm actually in. GIN (hushed) My God.  You're a cop. MAC (very softly) That's my girl.
MAC: See, my profession was cover, too.  A notorious thief has access to colleagues, their plans...
MAC: I've turned in...well, couple hundred.  over forty years. Scotland Yard, Interpol, FBI...
MAC: Thought I might retire.  After you.
GIN: And all the...microchips, the diamond machine...
MAC: Well, the chips were returned. The machine was just a box, did you actually think it was real?
GIN: I thought...everything was real. Stupid girl.
GIN: Those were have claimed entrapment.  You had to wait.  For mine.
GIN: The Oracle Bone...
MAC: Well, the State Department liked that one.  They have more fish to fry with Beijing than Taiwan.
MAC: So they're taking credit for letting it go through.  Tho I'm afraid your Colonel may be in for a career disappointment.
GIN: And the 5 billion.
MAC: I haven't told them.
MAC: I said you hadn't revealed the job.  That it wouldn't take place until after the changeover.
MAC: Don't look, they're there.
GIN: And my tickets.  In the shopping bag?
MAC: Well.  Kept my options open.  If I give you up, they don't matter, do they?
GIN: If.
MAC: Had lots of crazy thoughts.  One was retirement.  With four billion dollars.  After all, I know some places where life could be private...
GIN: But you couldn't do that, huh?
GIN: Otherwise.  They wouldn't be here.
MAC: Creature of habit.  I suppose.
GIN: Lots.  Of thoughts, you s...
MAC: Keep smiling.  They won't move, until I raise my left arm.
MAC: I thought.  Well, I've got the CD. I could contact the banks, reverse all the transactions...
MAC: ...except maybe.  Leave you with... oh, a hundred million, say.  To tide you over.
MAC: Then, I thought, nah.  Not my style.
MAC: I figured.  What the hell?
MAC: Let her keep the lot.
MAC: No rush.  The doors won't close for 60 seconds.
MAC: There's a pistol in the bag.  Reach in slowly.  Take it out fast.  Point it at my temple.
MAC: You can do it.  If I say you can.
MAC: Step onto the car, keep the pistol trained on my face.
MAC: Seems I was wrong.
MAC: Entrapment.  Is what robbers. Do to cops, huh?
MAC: Twenty seconds.  Shoot me in the shoulder, it'll slow them down.
GIN: Oughta shoot you in the face.
MAC: Come on, you can do it, if I sa...
GIN: No way.  Not anymore.
MAC: Ten seconds, hold on.
GIN: When do I see you?
MAC: Airport.  Changing at Mongkok Station, we can cut her off.
MAC: She might lose the wig, be looking brunette or blonde, navy pants suit...
AGENT: I think Yaumatei changes for the airport, and it's closer.
MAC (O.S.): I think you're wrong, but cover it. You got maybe four minutes. MAC (O.S., calmly) No problem.  She's trapped.
